character	line
PALMER	The distress call definitely came from one of the solar systems in this sector.
KIRK	Can you pinpoint it any closer, Lieutenant?
PALMER	Negative. It was so badly garbled all we got was the name Constellation, then we lost it.
SULU	Sir, we're now within the limits of System L-370, but I can't seem to locate
SPOCK	Captain, sensors show this entire solar system has been destroyed. Nothing left but rubble and asteroids.
KIRK	But that's incredible. The star in this system is still intact. Only a nova could destroy like that.
SPOCK	Nonetheless, Captain, sensors show nothing but debris where we charted seven planets last year.
KIRK	Continue a search pattern.
SULU	Aye, aye, sir.
SULU	Entering limits of System L-374, sir. Scanners show the same evidence of destruction.
KIRK	Every solar system in this sector blasted to rubble and still no sign of the Constellation. Matt Decker's in command. What could have happened to him?
SPOCK	Captain, the two inner most planets of this system appear to be intact.
PALMER	Sir, I'm picking up a ship's disaster beacon.
KIRK	Try to raise it, Lieutenant.
SPOCK	I have it on the sensors, Captain. By configuration, a starship stopped in space. She appears to be drifting.
PALMER	No answer, Captain. All I get is the automatic beacon.
SPOCK	Sensors not recording normal energy output.
KIRK	Approach course, Mister Sulu.
KIRK	It's the Constellation. Look at that.
SPOCK	She may have been wrecked by whatever destroyed these solar systems.
KIRK	She was attacked. Red alert! Red alert! Man your battle stations!
PALMER	Red alert. Red alert. Man your battle stations.
KIRK	Mister Sulu?
SULU	All phaser banks manned and ready, sir.
KIRK	Very good. Initiate a full sensor scan of the immediate area for any other vessel.
SULU	Aye, sir.
KIRK	Lieutenant Palmer.
PALMER	I can't raise the Constellation, sir. I'm still getting the distress beacon, but there's heavy subspace interference. It's almost blocking the signal.
KIRK	Keep trying. Mister Spock, full evaluation of the damage to the Constellation.
SPOCK	All power plants dead, reserve energy banks operative at a very low power level.
KIRK	Life support systems?
SPOCK	Also operative at a low power level. The entire Bridge is damaged and uninhabitable. The rest of the ship seems able to sustain life.
KIRK	Radiation levels?
SPOCK	Normal, but subspace interference makes readings difficult.
SULU	No other vessels in the area, Captain. All scanners show clear.
KIRK	All hands, go to Yellow Alert. Stand by battle stations. Lieutenant, have Doctor McCoy, Mister Scott, and a damage control party report to me in the transporter room.
PALMER	Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK	We're going to board her. Mister Spock, you're in command.
SPOCK	Acknowledged.
WASHBURN	Radiation level normal. Atmospheric pressure eleven pounds per square inch.
CREWMAN	Filtration systems are out, sir.
SCOTT	The whole communication system looks to be shorted out, too, sir.
KIRK	Scotty, check the phaser banks. See if they've been fired. Bones, you come with me.
SCOTT	Come along, lads.
WASHBURN	What a mess.
KIRK	No clutter, no half-empty cups of coffee. Whatever happened didn't happen without a warning.
WASHBURN	What do you think did it, sir?
SCOTT	I don't know, lad. But I want a full structural and control damage check, and I'm going to have a look at those engines.
KIRK	The crew wasn't abducted, they just left. Kirk to Enterprise.
SPOCK	Enterprise, Spock here.
KIRK	No survivors, no bodies either.
KIRK	Is it possible they could have beamed down to one of the two planets?
SPOCK	Improbable, Captain. The surface temperature of the inner planet is that of molten lead. The other has an atmosphere poisonous to human life.
KIRK	We'll continue our search. Kirk out.
SCOTT	Captain, I've checked the engines. The warp drive is a hopeless pile of junk. The impulse engines are not too badly off. We ought to be able to do something with them.
KIRK	Phaser banks?
SCOTT	Exhausted. They didn't give up without a battle.
KIRK	But where are they? I can't imagine a man like Matt Decker abandoning ship while his life support systems were still operative.
SCOTT	Computer system is still intact. We can playback the duplicate Captain's Log from the auxiliary control room.
KIRK	Matt. Matt, it's Jim Kirk.
MCCOY	Commodore? Commodore Decker?
KIRK	Matt? Matt.
DECKER	Kirk. It's Jim Kirk.
KIRK	What happened to your ship, Matt?
DECKER	A ship. Attacked. That, that thing.
KIRK	What thing? What was it?
DECKER	That
KIRK	Answer me! What was it? What happened, Matt?
MCCOY	Jim, give him a minute. He's in a state of shock.
SCOTT	Ready with the duplicate log, sir.
KIRK	Go.
DECKER	Captain's log, stardate 4202.1. Exceptionally heavy subspace interference still prevents our contacting Starfleet to inform them of the destroyed solar systems we have encountered. We are now entering system L-374. Science Officer Masada reports the fourth planet seems to be breaking up. We are going to investigate.
KIRK	The fourth planet. Only two left now. Scotty, pull the microtapes from the sensor memory banks and beam them aboard to Spock. I want a full analysis, a complete report of what happened when they went in on that planet.
DECKER	We tried to contact Starfleet. No one heard. No one! We couldn't run.
KIRK	What happened to your crew?
DECKER	Oh, I had to beam them down. We were dead. No power, our phasers useless. I stayed behind, the last man. The Captain, the last man aboard the ship. That's what you're supposed to do, isn't it? And then it hit again and the transporter went out. They were down there, and I'm up here.
KIRK	What hit? What attacked you?
DECKER	They say there's no devil, Jim, but there is. Right out of hell, I saw it.
KIRK	Matt, where's your crew?
DECKER	On the third planet.
KIRK	There is no third planet.
DECKER	Don't you think I know that? There was, but not anymore. They called me. They begged me for help, four hundred of them. I couldn't. I couldn't.
SCOTT	Captain, Washburn has our report.
KIRK	Go.
WASHBURN	We made a complete check on structural and control damage, sir. As far as we can tell, something crashed through the deflectors and knocked out the generators. Somehow the antimatter in the warp drive pods has been deactivated.
KIRK	Deactivated? Scotty, could some kind of general energy dampening field do that, and would the same type of thing account for the heavy subspace interference?
SCOTT	Aye, that all adds up. But what sort of a thing could do all that?
DECKER	If you'd seen it, you'd know. The whole thing's a weapon. It must be.
KIRK	What does it look like?
DECKER	Well, it's miles long, with a maw that could swallow a dozen starships. It destroys planets, chops them into rubble.
KIRK	What is it, an alien ship? Or is it alive, or is it
DECKER	Both or neither. I don't know.
KIRK	Matt, your log stated that the fourth planet was breaking up. You went in to investigate.
DECKER	We saw this thing hovering over the planet, slicing out chunks of it with a force beam.
KIRK	Did you run a scanner check on it? What kind of a beam?
DECKER	Pure antiproton. Absolutely pure.
KIRK	Kirk here.
SPOCK	Spock here, Captain.
SPOCK	Unable to raise Starfleet Command due to heavy subspace interference.
SPOCK	Attempting to remedy.
KIRK	What about the Constellation's tapes?
SPOCK	She was attacked by what appears to be essentially a robot, an automated weapon of immense size and power. Its apparent function is to smash planets to rubble and then digest the debris for fuel. It is, therefore, self-sustaining as long as there are planetary bodies for it to feed on.
KIRK	A robot weapon that purposely destroys entire solar systems. Why?
SPOCK	Unknown, Captain. However, Mister Sulu has computed the path of the machine, using the destroyed solar systems as a base course. Projecting back on our star charts, we find that it came from outside, from another galaxy.
KIRK	What is the projected course of this thing?
SPOCK	If it follows its present path, it will go through the most densely populated section of our galaxy.
KIRK	Thank you. Stand by, Mister Spock. Kirk out.
MCCOY	This whole thing's incredible. A robot? A machine like that, who would build it?
KIRK	We don't know. An alien race, apparently from another galaxy.
MCCOY	But why?
KIRK	Bones, did you ever hear of a doomsday machine?
MCCOY	No. I'm a doctor, not a mechanic.
KIRK	It's a weapon built primarily as a bluff. It's never meant to be used. So strong, it could destroy both sides in a war. Something like the old H-Bomb was supposed to be. That's what I think this is. A doomsday machine that somebody used in a war uncounted years ago. They don't exist anymore, but the machine is still destroying.
DECKER	Oh, forget about your theories! That thing is on the way to the heart of our galaxy. What are you going to do about it?
KIRK	Take it easy.
MCCOY	The first thing we're going to do is get you back to the Enterprise.
DECKER	Oh, no, I stay here. I'm not leaving my ship!
KIRK	There's no ship to leave. It's a dead hulk! We'll take her in tow. I'll stay onboard and get her ready. You go back to the Enterprise with the doctor and let him help you.
DECKER	It's just that I, I, I never lost a command before.
KIRK	Kirk to Enterprise. Have the transporter room beam Doctor McCoy and Commodore Decker on board immediately.
SPOCK	Red alert! Red alert!
MCCOY	Come on.
SPOCK	It came up on us fast, Captain, but we seem able to maintain our distance.
KIRK	We're blind here. What's it look like?
SPOCK	It looks very much like Commodore Decker's planet killer. And it is pursuing us.
SPOCK	We are more manoeuvrable, but it is gaining on us. Sensors indicate some kind of total conversion drive.
SPOCK	No evidence of life, subspace interference level incredibly high.
KIRK	Whatever it is, we can't let it go beyond us to the next solar system. We have to stop it. If it's a robot, what are the chances of deactivating it?
SPOCK	I would say none, Captain. The energy generated by our power nacelles seems to attracts it. I doubt we could manoeuvre close enough without drawing a direct attack upon ourselves.
SPOCK	I also believe the nature of this machine precludes the possibility of easy access to its control mechanisms.
SULU	It's closing on us, Mister Spock.
SPOCK	Closing, Captain.
KIRK	All right. Lower your deflector screens Long enough to beam us aboard.
SPOCK	Acknowledged.
SPOCK	Transporter Room, stand by to beam landing party aboard.
KYLE	Ready to beam, sir.
SPOCK	Evasive action, Mister Sulu.
SULU	Aye, sir.
SPOCK	Damage report, all stations.
KYLE	Mister Spock, the transporter's out.
SPOCK	Affect repairs. Captain Kirk, come in please.
KIRK	Kirk here.
SPOCK	Captain, we've been attacked. The transporter is damaged. We're taking evasive action.
PALMER	Mister Spock, communication's damaged. We're unable to override interference.
SPOCK	Damage in communications, Captain. Interference will
KIRK	Spock? Spock? Come in, Spock. Spock? We're stuck, blind, and deaf.
SCOTT	And paralysed. No power.
KIRK	Well, we just can't stand around while our ship is being attacked. Scotty, you've got to get me some manoeuvering power.
SCOTT	I can't repair warp drive without a spacedock.
KIRK	Then get me impulse power. Half-speed, quarter-speed, anything. If we get this hulk moving, maybe we can do something.
SCOTT	Aye, the impulse engines are still in fair shape. I might coax them.
KIRK	Then get moving.
SCOTT	Come on, lad.
KIRK	Washburn, you get in there. Let's see what we can do about this viewing screen. I've got to find out what's happening out there.
MCCOY	No casualties, Mister Spock. How are we doing?
SPOCK	We have outrun it, Doctor.
DECKER	Status report.
SPOCK	Impulse and warp engines operative, transporter and communications under repair. Random chance seems to have operated in our favour.
MCCOY	In plain, non-Vulcan English, we've been lucky.
SPOCK	I believe I said that, Doctor.
SULU	It's veering off, back on course for the next solar system. The Rigel colony, sir.
SPOCK	Evidently programmed to ignore anything as small as a ship beyond a certain radius. We'll maintain a discreet distance and circle back to pick up the Captain.
DECKER	You can't let that reach Rigel. Why, millions of innocent people would die.
SPOCK	I am aware of the Rigel system's population, Commodore, but we are only one ship. Our deflector shields are strained, our subspace transmitter is useless. Logically, our primary duty is to survive in order to warn Starfleet Command.
DECKER	Our primary duty is to maintain life and safety of Federation planets. Do you deny that?
SPOCK	Mister Sulu, you will lay in an evasive course back to the Constellation.
SULU	Aye, aye, sir.
DECKER	Belay that last order, helmsman. One hundred and eighty degree turn, hard about. We're going to attack.
SPOCK	You will carry out my last order, Mister Sulu.
DECKER	Mister Spock, I'm officially notifying you that I'm exercising my option under regulations as a Starfleet Commodore, and that I am assuming command of the Enterprise.
SPOCK	You have the right to do so, but I would advise against it.
DECKER	That thing must be destroyed.
SPOCK	You tried to destroy it once before, Commodore. The result was a wrecked ship and a dead crew.
DECKER	I made a mistake then. We were too far away. This time I'm going to hit it with full phasers at point-blank range.
SPOCK	Sensors show the object's hull is solid neutronium. A single ship cannot combat it.
DECKER	Mister Spock, that will be all. You have been relieved of command. Don't force me to relieve you of duty as well.
MCCOY	You can't let him do this, Spock.
DECKER	Doctor, you are out of line.
MCCOY	So are you, sir. Well, Spock?
SPOCK	Unfortunately, Starfleet Order 104, Section B, leaves me no alternative. Paragraph 1A clearly states
MCCOY	To blazes with regulations! You can't let him take command when you know he's wrong!
SPOCK	If you can certify Commodore Decker medically or psychologically unfit for command, I can relieve him under Section C.
MCCOY	I'll certify that right now.
SPOCK	You'll also be asked to produce your medical records to prove it.
MCCOY	Now, you know I haven't had time to run an examination on him.
SPOCK	Then your statement would not be considered valid.
DECKER	You may leave the Bridge, Doctor.
MCCOY	What about the Captain? We can't leave
DECKER	Doctor, you may leave the Bridge.
MCCOY	Spock, do something!
DECKER	Mister Spock knows his duty under regulations, Doctor. Do you? Hard about, helmsman. Course thirty two degrees, mark ten. Deflectors at full power. Ready on main phaser banks.
SULU	Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK	Kirk here.
SCOTT	Captain, the impulse engines' control circuits are fused solid.
KIRK	What about the warp drive control circuits?
SCOTT	Aye, we can cross-connect the controls, but it'll make the ship almost impossible for one man to handle.
KIRK	You worry about your miracles, Scotty, I'll worry about mine. Get to work.
SCOTT	Aye, sir.
KIRK	Washburn, try the 2G6 circuit.
SULU	Closing fast.
SPOCK	Deflector shields at full power. They can't take much more of this.
DECKER	Helmsman, hold your course. Stand by all phaser banks.
SULU	Aye, aye, sir.
SPOCK	Deflectors holding, but weakening. We must retreat, Commodore. The energy drain
DECKER	I'm in command here, Mister Spock. Maintain your course, helmsman. Get us in closer.
KIRK	Ready to give it a try?
WASHBURN	Just one minute, sir.
KIRK	Scotty, how you doing?
SCOTT	Controls are all hooked up, sir. We should have some power for you soon.
WASHBURN	Try it now, Captain.
KIRK	Yes, I think What the devil's going on?
DECKER	Fire!
SULU	Direct hit. It just bounced off.
SPOCK	Commodore, I urgently recommend immediate withdrawal.
DECKER	Recommendation noted. Maintain course. Fire!
KIRK	Kirk to Enterprise. Come in. Enterprise, come in. Mister Spock, come in. Kirk to Enterprise. Scotty, where's that power?
SCOTT	Coming, sir. If I push these impulse engines too hard in the condition they're in, they'll blow apart.
KIRK	Washburn, get down to Engineering. Assist Mister Scott.
WASHBURN	Aye, sir.
KIRK	Scotty, push it right to the edge. This ship has got to manoeuver.
SCOTT	Aye, sir.
SPOCK	Sir, deflector shields are gone.
PALMER	Sir, Deck seven reports power failure in main energisers. Implementing emergency procedures. Severe casualties reported on decks three and four. Damage control party sealing off inner hull rupture.
SPOCK	It has ceased fire. We're being held in a tractor beam. We're being pulled inside, Commodore. You must veer off.
DECKER	Maintain phaser fire, helmsman.
SPOCK	We have lost warp power. If we don't break the tractor beam within sixty seconds, we never will.
DECKER	But don't you understand? We've got to destroy it!
SPOCK	That, sir, is illogical. It is suicide. Attempted suicide would be proof that you are psychologically unfit for command. If you don't veer off, I shall relieve you on that basis.
DECKER	Veer off.
SPOCK	Emergency impulse power.
SULU	We can't break loose!
SPOCK	We need more power.
SULU	We haven't got it. We're being pulled inside.
KIRK	Scotty, give me that power.
SCOTT	You've got it, Captain. Just enough to move us. I can't do better.
KIRK	That'll do. Full ahead, Mister Scott.
KIRK	That's it, Mister Scott. Keep that power coming.
DECKER	Full power astern.
SULU	Aye, sir. We still can't move.
KIRK	Keep pouring it on, Scotty.
SCOTT	Captain, I still don't know what we're doing.
KIRK	We're moving, the Enterprise isn't. Maybe that thing will see us and let the Enterprise go. If I only had some phasers.
SCOTT	Phasers? You've got 'em. I have one bank recharged.
KIRK	Scotty, you've just earned your pay for the week. Stand by. Fire phasers.
SULU	We're loose, Commodore.
DECKER	Good boy, Jim. Between the two of us, we'll kill that thing.
KIRK	Mister Scott, it worked. Great. I think it's great. Scotty, get us out of here.
SPOCK	It's closing fast on the Constellation.
SULU	Standing by, sir.
SPOCK	Commodore, I suggest
DECKER	Kirk pulled us out of there by distracting it. Now it's our turn. Fire phasers. We did it! Hard about. Give me some distance.
SULU	We're moving away, Commodore.
SPOCK	This machine seems to have a programmed defensive sphere. Any energy source entering that field is subject to attack.
DECKER	Mister Spock, status report.
SPOCK	Warp drive and deflectors will be out for a solar day. Repairs proceeding on transporter and communications.
SULU	It's closing with us again, sir.
DECKER	Maintain speed and distance.
SULU	It's sucking in space rubble from those destroyed planets. Refueling itself.
SPOCK	We can maintain this speed for only seven hours before we exhaust our fuel, but it can refuel itself indefinitely.
DECKER	Then we'll have to fight it now before it gets any stronger.
SPOCK	Illogical. We cannot destroy it. Therefore, we cannot save Rigel. We must transport the Captain and the others from the Constellation and escape this thing's subspace interference in order to warn Starfleet Command.
PALMER	Mister Spock, we've pierced the interference locally.
SPOCK	Can you raise Starfleet?
PALMER	No, sir, but I've got ship-to-ship communications back. Picking up Captain Kirk.
SPOCK	On audio, Lieutenant.
KIRK	Enterprise. Enterprise, come in.
DECKER	Mister Spock, I am still in command. I will speak for this ship. Enterprise to Kirk.
DECKER	Commodore Decker speaking.
KIRK	Matt. What's going on? Give me Mister Spock.
DECKER	I'm in command here, Jim.
KIRK	What happened to Spock?
DECKER	Nothing. I assumed command according to regulations
DECKER	Since your first officer was reluctant to take aggressive action against the
KIRK	You mean you're the lunatic who's responsible for almost destroying my ship?
DECKER	You are speaking to a senior officer, Kirk.
KIRK	Give me Spock.
DECKER	I told you, I am in command here, according to every rule in the book, Captain. Anything you have to say at all, you will say to me.
KIRK	There's only one thing I want to say to you, Commodore. Get my ship out of there.
KIRK	Mister Spock, ship status.
SPOCK	Commodore.
DECKER	Down here.
SPOCK	Warp drive out. Deflector shields down. Transporter under repair. We are on emergency impulse power.
KIRK	How long to repair warp drive?
SPOCK	At least one solar day.
SPOCK	At our present rate of consumption, we'll exhaust our impulse power long before then.
SULU	It's gaining on us, sir.
KIRK	Take evasive action, Mister Sulu.
DECKER	I told you, I am in command here and I will give the orders, Captain. We're going to turn and attack.
KIRK	Not with my ship, you don't.
KIRK	Mister Spock, relieve Commodore Decker immediately. That's a direct order.
DECKER	You can't relieve me and you know it. According to regulations
KIRK	Blast regulations! Mister Spock, I order you to assume command on my personal authority as Captain of the Enterprise.
SPOCK	Commodore Decker, you are relieved of command.
DECKER	I don't recognise your authority to relieve me.
SPOCK	You may file a formal protest with Starfleet Command, assuming we survive to reach a Starbase. But you are relieved. Commodore. I do not wish to place you under arrest.
DECKER	You wouldn't dare. You're bluffing.
SPOCK	Vulcans never bluff.
DECKER	No. No, I don't suppose that they do. Very well, Mister Spock. The Bridge is yours.
SPOCK	Captain, I have assumed command.
KIRK	Good. Now, Mister Spock
SPOCK	One moment, sir. Commodore. I believe you are scheduled for medical examination. Mister Montgomery.
MONTGOMERY	Sir.
SPOCK	You will accompany the commodore to Sickbay.
MONTGOMERY	Aye, sir. Commodore?
SPOCK	Mister Sulu, change course. Seven zero mark two one.
SULU	Mark twenty one, sir.
SPOCK	Captain, we are taking an evasive course back to you. We will try to stay ahead of the object until we can transport you aboard.
KIRK	Fine. Just make sure you stay ahead of it.
SCOTT	Captain Kirk.
KIRK	Yes, Scotty.
SCOTT	I've hooked in ship's communication. The best I can give you on impulse is one third power. The shields are up but they won't last long.
KIRK	Keep it going, Scotty, keep it going. Mister Spock.
SPOCK	Yes, sir.
KIRK	I'm plotting an intercept course. Will rendezvous with you at fourteen thirteen point seven hours.
SULU	Mister Spock, someone's opening the shuttlecraft bay doors.
SPOCK	Shut them, Mister Sulu.
SULU	It's too late, sir.
KIRK	Kirk to Enterprise. Why are you launching a shuttlecraft?
SPOCK	Whoever it is, Captain, has no authorisation. Lieutenant, raise the shuttlecraft.
PALMER	Enterprise to shuttlecraft. Come in, shuttlecraft.
PALMER	Enterprise to shuttlecraft. Come in, shuttlecraft. Come in, shuttlecraft.
DECKER	Shuttlecraft to Enterprise. Decker here.
SPOCK	Commodore, I must insist that you return to the ship.
DECKER	You said it yourself, Spock. There is no way to blast through the hull of that machine, so I'm going to take this thing right down its throat.
KIRK	This is Kirk. Matt, you'll be killed.
DECKER	I've been prepared for death ever since I, ever since I killed my crew.
KIRK	No one expects you to die for an error in judgment.
DECKER	The commander is responsible for the lives of his crew, and for their deaths. Well, I should have died with mine.
SPOCK	You cannot succeed, Commodore. Your only logical alternative is to return to the ship.
KIRK	Matt. Matt, listen to me. You can't throw your life away like this. Matt, you're a starship commander. That makes you a valuable commodity.
KIRK	We need you, your experience, your judgment. Matt!
KIRK	We're stronger with you than without you!
SPOCK	He's gone. Constellation, come in, please.
SPOCK	Captain Kirk, come in please.
KIRK	Kirk here.
SPOCK	Sir, may I offer my condolences on the death of your friend. It is most regrettable.
KIRK	It's regrettable that he died for nothing.
SULU	Mister Spock, sensors indicate a minute drop in the machine's power emanations. Do you think the shuttlecraft explosion might have done some damage?
KIRK	What about that, Spock? Is it possible?
SPOCK	The drop in power is definite, Captain but negligible. The object is still pursing us, thereby causing us to drain our power reserve at a much greater rate.
PALMER	Mister Spock, the transporter is now operational.
SPOCK	Transporter operational, Captain. Shall we beam you aboard?
KIRK	Negative.
KIRK	Mister Scott and I will stay here, but beam the damage control party aboard.
SPOCK	There's little to be gained by staying aboard the Constellation.
KIRK	Except possibly the destruction of that thing out there. Carry out your orders, Mister Spock.
SPOCK	Acknowledged. Transporter Room. Beam damage control party aboard.
KYLE	Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK	Spock, listen. Maybe Matt Decker didn't die for nothing. He had the right idea but not enough power to do it. Am I correct in assuming that a fusion explosion of ninety seven megatons will result if a starship impulse engine is overloaded?
SPOCK	No, sir. Ninety seven point eight three five megatons.
KIRK	Ninety seven point eight three five. Will it be powerful enough to destroy that thing out there?
SPOCK	Negative, Captain. Its hull is pure neutronium. There is no known way of blasting through it.
KIRK	Not through it, Spock, from inside it. Will it be enough?
SPOCK	Insufficient data. I shall try to take further sensor readings.
KIRK	Do the best you can and make it fast. Kirk to Scott.
SCOTT	Here, sir. The damage control party just beamed back to the Enterprise.
KIRK	Good. Scotty, can you set the ship's impulse engines to overload?
SCOTT	Aye. The shape the thing's in, it's hard to keep her from blowing.
KIRK	I want you to rig a thirty second delay detonation device, and rig it so that it can be blown from up here.
SCOTT	Aye, sir.
KIRK	Set it and get up here as fast as you can.
SCOTT	Right away.
SPOCK	Captain?
SPOCK	The object's neutronium hull makes sensor readings of the inner mechanism impossible.
KIRK	Spock, you don't know?
SPOCK	Correct.
SPOCK	Captain, you're getting dangerously close to the planet killer.
KIRK	I intend to get a lot closer. I'm going to ram her right down that thing's throat.
SPOCK	Jim, you'll be killed, just like Decker.
KIRK	No. No, I don't intend to die, Mister Spock. We've rigged a delay detonation device. You'll have thirty seconds to beam me aboard the Enterprise before the Constellation's impulse engines blow.
SPOCK	Your chances of survival are not promising. We don't even know if the explosion will be powerful enough.
KIRK	A calculated risk, Mister Spock.
SPOCK	There's another factor, Captain. The transporter is not working at one hundred percent efficiency.
SPOCK	Thirty seconds is very slim timing.
KIRK	A chance I'll have to take. Kirk out.
SCOTT	A cranky transporter's a mighty finicky piece of machinery to be gambling your life on, sir.
KIRK	What about the detonator?
SCOTT	I've linked it in with the impulse control system. It's armed now. Press this one. Thirty seconds later, poof! Once it's activated, there's no way to stop it.
KIRK	Understood. Mister Spock. Prepare to beam Scotty on board.
SPOCK	Transporter, stand by.
SCOTT	Good luck, Captain.
KIRK	Thank you.
SCOTT	What's the matter with that thing?
KYLE	It's a power drain somewhere, sir. I almost lost you.
SCOTT	It'll never work like this. It's the main junction circuitry. I'll get it.
KYLE	Bridge. Transporter malfunction.
SPOCK	Transporter is out, Captain. You'll have to stand by.
KIRK	I can't. Power level's dropping too fast. You'd better hurry.
SPOCK	Acknowledged.
SPOCK	Mister Scott, speed is of the essence.
SULU	He's two thousand miles from the planet killer and closing fast.
SCOTT	Bridge, transporter operational, but this jury-rigging won't last for long. He's got to come off now.
SCOTT	I'll stand by here.
SULU	Fifteen hundred miles and closing.
SPOCK	Captain, transporter operational, but just barely.
KIRK	Prepare to beam me aboard on my signal.
SULU	One thousand miles and closing.
SPOCK	Transporter, stand by.
KYLE	Standing by, sir.
SULU	Five hundred miles and closing.
KIRK	Beam me aboard.
SPOCK	Energise.
KYLE	Energising. Bridge, it's shorted out again.
SCOTT	Och, what's wrong with it?
KIRK	Gentlemen, beam me aboard.
SPOCK	We can't, Captain. Transporter is out again.
SPOCK	Mister Scott, twenty seconds to detonation.
SPOCK	Mister Scott?
SPOCK	Mister Scott
SPOCK	Try inverse phasing.
SULU	Sixty, fifty, forty
SULU	Thirty.
KIRK	Gentlemen, I suggest you beam me aboard.
SULU	Ten
SULU	Nine, eight
SULU	Seven.
SPOCK	Mister Scott?
SCOTT	Try her now, Mister Kyle.
SULU	Six.
SULU	Five, four
KYLE	Bridge, we got him through!
SPOCK	Energy output zero. Radiation level normal.
SPOCK	Welcome aboard, Captain. Sensors show all energy sources deactivated. It's quite dead.
KIRK	Mister Sulu, ease us back to minimum headway. Conserve power as much as possible. Lieutenant Palmer, tell Mister Scott to expedite repairs on the warp drive. Poor Matt. He gave his life in an attempt to save others. Not the worst way to go.
SPOCK	Indeed, Captain. I presume your log will show that Commodore Decker died in the line of duty.
KIRK	Indeed it shall, Mister Spock. Ironic, isn't it? Way back in the 20th century, the H-Bomb was the ultimate weapon, their doomsday machine, and we used something like it to destroy another doomsday machine. Probably the first time such a weapon has ever been used for constructive purposes.
SPOCK	Appropriate, Captain. However, I can't help wondering if there are any more of those weapons wandering around the universe.
KIRK	Well, I certainly hope not. I found one quite sufficient.
