character	line
SPOCK	Deep Space Station K7 now within sensor range, Captain.
KIRK	Good. Mister Chekov, this flight is supposed to provide both experience and knowledge. How close will we come to the Klingon outpost if we continue on our present course?
CHEKOV	One parsec, sir. Close enough to smell them.
SPOCK	That is illogical, Ensign. Odours cannot travel through the vacuum of space.
CHEKOV	I was making a little joke, sir.
SPOCK	Extremely little, Ensign.
KIRK	Mister Spock, immediate past history of the quadrant?
SPOCK	Under dispute between the two parties since initial contact. The battle of Donatu Five was fought near here twenty three solar years ago. Inconclusive.
KIRK	Analysis of disputed area?
SPOCK	Undeveloped. Sherman's Planet is claimed by both sides, our Federation and the Klingon Empire. We do have the better claim.
CHEKOV	The area was first mapped by the famous Russian astronomer Ivan Borkoff almost two hundred
KIRK	John Burke.
CHEKOV	Burke, sir? I don't think so. I'm sure it was
SPOCK	John Burke was the Chief Astronomer at the Royal Academy in old Britain at the time.
CHEKOV	Oh, Royal Academy. Well
KIRK	is the rest of your history that faulty, Ensign? Key points of dispute?
CHEKOV	Under terms of the Organian Peace Treaty, one side or the other must prove it can develop the planet most efficiently.
KIRK	And unfortunately, though the Klingons are brutal and aggressive, they are most efficient.
CHEKOV	I remember once Peter the Great had that problem like that. The
UHURA	Captain?
KIRK	Kirk here.
UHURA	I'm picking up a subspace distress call. Priority channel. It's from Space Station K7.
KIRK	Go to warp factor six.
CHEKOV	Code One emergency. That's a disaster call.
UHURA	This is a Red Alert. Man your battle stations. All hands.
KIRK	Captain's Log, stardate 4523.3. Deep Space Station K7 has issued a priority one call. More than an emergency, it signals near or total disaster. We can only assume the Klingons have attacked the station. We're going in armed for battle.
CHEKOV	Main phasers armed and ready, sir.
CHEKOV	But there's nothing there. Just the station.
KIRK	Priority One distress call, and it's just absolutely peaceful. Lieutenant Uhura, break subspace silence.
UHURA	Aye, sir. The channel's open, sir.
KIRK	Space Station K7, this is Captain Kirk of the Enterprise. What is your emergency?
LURRY	This is Mister Lurry, manager of K7. I must apologise for the distress call.
KIRK	Mister Lurry, you issued a Priority One distress call. State the nature of your emergency.
LURRY	Well, perhaps you better beam over. I'll try to explain.
KIRK	You'll try to explain. You'd better be prepared to do more than that. Kirk out. Mister Spock, I'll need your help. Mister Chekov, maintain battle readiness. Lieutenant Uhura, see that the transporter room is standing by.
UHURA	Aye, sir. Transporter room, stand by.
KIRK	Mister Lurry, if there's no emergency, why did you issue a priority one distress call?
BARIS	That was my order, Captain.
LURRY	Captain Kirk, this is Nilz Baris. He's out from Earth to take charge of the development project on Sherman's Planet.
KIRK	And that gives you the authority to put an entire quadrant on defence alert?
DARVIN	Mister Baris is the Federation Undersecretary in Charge of Agricultural Affairs in this quadrant.
SPOCK	That gives him the authority.
KIRK	Oh.
BARIS	This is my assistant Arne Darvin.
KIRK	And this is my first officer Mister Spock.
LURRY	Mister Spock.
BARIS	And now Captain, I want all available security guards. I want them posted around the storage compartments.
KIRK	Storage compartments? Storage compartments?
DARVIN	The storage compartments containing the quadrotriticale.
KIRK	What? What? What's quadrotriticale? Wheat. So what?
BARIS	Quadrotriticale is not wheat, Captain. Of course, I wouldn't expect you or Mister Spock to know about such things, but quadrotriticale is a rather
SPOCK	Quadrotriticale is a high-yield grain, a four-lobed hybrid of wheat and rye. A perennial, also, I believe. Its root grain, triticale, can trace its ancestry all the way back to twentieth century Canada
KIRK	Mister Spock, you've made your point.
LURRY	Quadrotriticale is the only earth grain that grows on Sherman's Planet. We have several tons of it here on the station. It's very important that grain gets to Sherman's Planet safely. Mister Baris thinks that Klingon agents may try to sabotage it.
KIRK	You issued a priority one distress call for a couple of tons of wheat?
DARVIN	Quadrotriticale!
BARIS	Of course, Captain, I realise that
KIRK	Mister Baris, you summoned the Enterprise without an emergency. You'll take full responsibility for it.
BARIS	What do you mean?
SPOCK	Misuse of the Priority One channels is a Federation offence.
BARIS	I did not misuse the Priority One channel. I want that grain protected.
LURRY	Captain, couldn't you at least post a couple of guards? We do have a large number of ships passing through.
SPOCK	It would seem a logical precaution, Captain. The Sherman's Planet affair is of extreme importance to the Federation.
KIRK	Kirk to Enterprise.
UHURA	Enterprise here.
KIRK	Secure from general quarters. And beam down two, and only two, security guards. Have them report to Mister Lurry. Authorise shore leave for all off-duty personnel.
UHURA	Yes, Captain.
KIRK	Kirk out.
BARIS	Captain Kirk, how dare you authorise a mere two men for a project of this importance? Starfleet Command
KIRK	I have never questioned the orders or the intelligence of any representative of the Federation. Until now.
KIRK	Summoning a starship on a priority A-1 channel to guard some storage compartments. Storage compartments of wheat.
SPOCK	Nevertheless Captain, the Klingons would not enjoy seeing us successfully develop Sherman's Planet.
KIRK	I guess not.
KIRK	I see you didn't waste time taking your shore leave.
UHURA	How often do I get shore leave?
CHEKOV	She wants to shop, and I thought I would help her.
JONES	Oh, excuse me. Excuse me.
KIRK	Mister Chekov, what do you make of this?
CHEKOV	Oh, quadrotriticale. I've read about this, but I've never seen any before.
KIRK	Does everybody know about this wheat but me?
CHEKOV	Not everyone, Captain. It's a Russian invention.
KIRK	Ah.
BARMAN	I don't want any. I told you before, and I'm telling you again I don't want any more Spican flame gems. Thanks to you, I have enough Spican flame gems to last me a lifetime.
JONES	How sad for you, my friend. You won't find a finer stone anywhere. But I have something better. Surely you want some Antarian glow water.
BARMAN	I use that to polish the flame gems.
JONES	You're a difficult man to reach, but I have something from the far reaches of the galaxy. Surely you want
BARMAN	Not at your price.
UHURA	What is it? Is it alive? May I hold it?
UHURA	Oh, it's adorable. What is it?
JONES	What is it? Why, lovely lady, it's a tribble.
UHURA	A tribble?
JONES	Only the sweetest creature known to man, excepting, of course, your lovely self.
UHURA	Oh, it's purring. Listen, it's purring.
JONES	It's only saying that it likes you.
UHURA	Are you selling them?
BARMAN	That's what we're trying to decide right now.
JONES	My friend, 10 credits apiece is a very reasonable price. Now you can see for yourself how much the lovely little lady appreciates the finer things.
BARMAN	One credit apiece.
CHEKOV	He won't bite, will he?
JONES	Sir, transporting harmful animals from one planet to another is against regulations, or weren't you aware of that? Besides, tribbles have no teeth.
BARMAN	All right. I'll double my offer 2 credits.
JONES	Twice nothing is still nothing.
UHURA	If you're not going to take him, I'm going to take him. I think he's cute.
BARMAN	Four credits.
JONES	Is that an offer or a joke?
BARMAN	That's my offer.
JONES	That's a joke.
BARMAN	Five?
JONES	You're an honest man. I'll tell you what I'm going to do I'm going to lessen my price to eight and a half credits.
BARMAN	You're talking yourself out of a deal, friend. Six credits. Not a credit more.
JONES	Seven and a half. Seven? All right, you robber, six credits.
BARMAN	Done. When can I have them?
JONES	Right away.
UHURA	All right, what are you selling them for?
BARMAN	Well, let me see, little lady. Six credits. Figure a reasonable mark-up for a reasonable profit, say ten percent mark-up. Ten credits.
JONES	Thief.
BARMAN	In fact, I'll sell you this one.
CHEKOV	Hey! He's eating my grain.
BARMAN	That'll be ten credits.
JONES	That happens to be my sample, and I'll do with it as I please. And I please to give it to the lovely lady.
UHURA	Oh, I couldn't. Could I?
JONES	I insist.
BARMAN	What are you trying to do, ruin the market?
JONES	Once this lovely little lady starts to show this precious little darling around, you won't be able to keep up with them.
KIRK	Yes, what is it?
UHURA	Message from Starfleet, Captain. Priority channel. Admiral Fitzpatrick speaking.
KIRK	Put it on visual, Lieutenant.
ADMIRAL	Captain Kirk?
KIRK	Kirk here.
ADMIRAL	Captain, it is not necessary to remind you of the importance to the Federation of Sherman's Planet. The key to our winning of this planet is the grain quadrotriticale. The shipment of it must be protected. Effective immediately, you will render any aid and assistance which Undersecretary Baris may require. The safety of the grain and the project is your responsibility. Starfleet out.
KIRK	Now, that's just lovely.
SPOCK	But not totally unexpected.
UHURA	Captain Kirk! Captain Kirk!
KIRK	Yes, Lieutenant, what is it?
UHURA	Sensors are picking up a Klingon battle cruiser rapidly closing on the station.
KIRK	Go to Red Alert. Notify Mister Lurry. We'll be right up.
KIRK	What is the position of the Klingon ship?
CHEKOV	A hundred kilometres off K7. It's just sitting there.
UHURA	Captain, I have Mister Lurry.
KIRK	Put him on visual.
UHURA	Aye, sir.
KIRK	Mister Lurry, there's a Klingon warship hanging one hundred kilometres off your station.
LURRY	I don't think the Klingons are planning to attack us.
KIRK	Why not?
LURRY	Because at this moment the captain of the Klingon ship is sitting right here in my office.
KIRK	Cancel Red Alert. We'll beam right down.
UHURA	Security, cancel Red Alert.
KIRK	Captain's log, stardate 4524.2. A Klingon warship is hovering only a hundred kilometres from Deep Space Station K7 while its captain waits in the station manager's office. Their intentions are unknown.
KOLOTH	Ah, my dear Captain Kirk.
KIRK	My dear Captain Koloth.
KOLOTH	Let me assure you that my intentions are peaceful. As I've already told Mister Lurry, the purpose of my presence is to invoke shore leave rights.
KIRK	Shore leave?
KOLOTH	Captain, we Klingons are not as luxury-minded as you Earthers. We do not equip our ships with, how shall I say it, non-essentials.
KORAX	We have been in space for five months. What we choose as recreation is our own business.
KOLOTH	I might also add that under terms of the Organian Peace Treaty, you cannot refuse us.
KIRK	Yes, well, I don't make those decisions. Mister Lurry is in charge of those matters.
LURRY	Captain, may I speak to you a minute? Look, I don't want them here, but I don't have the authority to refuse.
KIRK	Well, I have the authority to act, and I'm going to use it. My dear Captain Koloth, you may indeed bring your men down on shore leave, but only twelve at a time. And I assure you, for every man you bring down here, I shall have one security guard. There will be no trouble.
KOLOTH	Captain Kirk, there's been no formal declaration of hostilities between our two respective governments. So, naturally, our relationship will be a peaceful one.
KIRK	Let us both take steps to keep it that way.
KOLOTH	Of course.
KIRK	Another technical journal, Scotty?
SCOTT	Aye.
KIRK	Don't you ever relax?
SCOTT	I am relaxing.
MCCOY	How long have you had that thing, Lieutenant?
UHURA	Since yesterday, Doctor. This morning, I found out that he, I mean she, had had babies.
MCCOY	Well, in that case, you got a bargain.
KIRK	You running a nursery, Lieutenant?
UHURA	Oh, Captain. Well, I hadn't intended to, sir, but the tribble had other plans.
KIRK	Did you get this at the space station?
UHURA	Yes, sir.
SPOCK	A most curious creature, Captain. Its trilling seems to have a tranquillising effect on the human nervous system. Fortunately, of course, I am immune to its effect.
MCCOY	Lieutenant, do you mind if I take one of these down to the lab to see what makes it tick?
UHURA	Well, all right, Doctor, but if you're going to dissect it, I don't want to know about it.
MCCOY	I won't harm a hair on its head, wherever that is.
FREEMAN	Say, Lieutenant. Seeing as you're giving them away, can I have one?
UHURA	Sure, why not? I think they're old enough. Go ahead.
CHEKOV	Bridge to Captain Kirk.
KIRK	Kirk here.
CHEKOV	Mister Baris waiting is on channel E to speak to you, sir.
KIRK	Pipe it down here will you, Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV	Aye, sir. Mister Baris is coming on.
KIRK	Yes, Mister Baris. What can I do for you?
BARIS	Kirk, this station is swarming with Klingons.
KIRK	I was not aware, Mister Baris, that twelve Klingons constitutes a swarm.
BARIS	Captain Kirk, there are Klingon soldiers on this station. Now, I want you to keep that grain safe.
KIRK	Mister Baris, I have guards around the grain. I have guards around the Klingons. The only reason those guards are there is because Starfleet wants them there. As for what you want It has been noted and logged. Kirk out.
SPOCK	Captain, may I ask where you'll be?
KIRK	Sickbay with a headache.
MCCOY	Hi, Jim.
KIRK	Bones, what have you got for a headache?
MCCOY	Let me guess. Klingons? Baris?
KIRK	Both. How many of these did Uhura give you?
MCCOY	Just one.
KIRK	But you've got, er, eleven.
MCCOY	You noticed that, huh? Here. This ought to take care of it.
KIRK	How do they? How do they?
MCCOY	I haven't figured that out yet, but I can tell you this much. Almost fifty percent of the creature's metabolism is geared for reproduction. Do you know what you get if you feed a tribble too much?
KIRK	A fat tribble.
MCCOY	No. You get a bunch of hungry little tribbles.
KIRK	Well, Bones, all I can suggest is you open up a maternity ward.
KIRK	All you men going on shore leave to stay in groups. Avoid trouble with the Klingons.
SCOTT	I'll tell them before they go, sir.
KIRK	Aren't you going on shore leave, Scotty?
SCOTT	Why, no, sir.
KIRK	I want you to go on shore leave. Make sure that everybody stays out of trouble.
SCOTT	But, Captain. Aye, sir.
KIRK	Scotty, enjoy yourself.
JONES	Ah, friend. Can I offer you a charming little tribble?
SCOTT	Uh, no, thanks.
JONES	Oh. Perhaps one of you other gents?
JONES	Ah, friend Klingon. Can I interest you in a harmless tribble?
KORAX	Get it away from me.
JONES	I'm sorry. I can't understand it. I've never seen them act this way before.
KORAX	Get out of here with that parasite.
JONES	He's only a harmless little
KORAX	Take it away!
JONES	Yes. Ah, my good friend. How would you like to enter another little transaction? This time, a tribble for a spot
BARMAN	A tribble.
JONES	Indeed.
BARMAN	A tribble?
SCOTT	When are you going to get off that milk diet, lad?
CHEKOV	This is vodka.
SCOTT	Where I come from, that's soda pop. This is a drink for a man.
CHEKOV	Scotch?
SCOTT	Aye.
CHEKOV	It was invented by a little old lady from Leningrad.
KORAX	The Earthers like those fuzzy things, don't they?
JONES	Oh, yes.
KLINGON	Frankly, I never liked Earthers. They remind me of Regulan blood worms.
CHEKOV	That Cossack.
SCOTT	Easy, lad. You ought to be more forgiving.
KORAX	No. I just remembered. There is one Earthman who doesn't remind me of a Regulan blood worm. That's Kirk. A Regulan blood worm is soft and shapeless, but Kirk isn't soft. Kirk may be a swaggering, overbearing, tin-plated dictator with delusions of godhood, but he's not soft.
SCOTT	Take it easy, lad. Everybody's entitled to an opinion.
KORAX	That's right, and if I think that Kirk is a Denebian slime devil, well that's my opinion too.
SCOTT	Don't do it, mister, and that's an order.
CHEKOV	You heard what he called the captain.
SCOTT	Forget it. It's not worth fighting for. We're big enough to take a few insults. Now, drink your drink.
KORAX	Of course, I'd say that Captain Kirk deserves his ship. We like the Enterprise. We, we really do. That sagging old rust bucket is designed like a garbage scow. Half the quadrant knows it. That's why they're learning to speak Klingonese.
CHEKOV	Mister Scott!
SCOTT	Laddie, don't you think you should rephrase that?
KORAX	You're right, I should. I didn't mean to say that the Enterprise should be hauling garbage. I meant to say that it should be hauled away as garbage.
KIRK	Captain's Log, stardate 4525.6. A small disturbance between the Klingon crew and members of the Enterprise crew has broken out aboard Space Station K7. I am forced to cancel shore leave for both ships.
KIRK	I want to know who started it. I'm waiting. Freeman, who started the fight?
FREEMAN	I don't know, sir.
KIRK	All right. Chekov. I know you. You started it, didn't you?
CHEKOV	No, sir, I didn't.
KIRK	Who did?
CHEKOV	I don't know, sir.
KIRK	I don't know, sir. I want to know who threw the first punch. All right. You're all confined to quarters until I find out who started it. Dismissed. Scotty, not you. You were supposed to prevent trouble, Mister Scott.
SCOTT	Aye, Captain.
KIRK	Who threw the first punch, Scotty?
SCOTT	Um.
KIRK	Mister Scott?
SCOTT	I did, Captain.
KIRK	You did, Mister Scott? What caused it, Scotty?
SCOTT	They insulted us, sir.
KIRK	Must have been some insult.
SCOTT	Aye, it was.
KIRK	You threw the first punch.
SCOTT	Aye. Chekov wanted to, but I held him back.
KIRK	You held? Why did Chekov want to start a fight?
SCOTT	Well, the Klingon, sir. Is this off the record?
KIRK	No, this is not off the record.
SCOTT	Well, Captain, the Klingons called you, uh a tin-plated, overbearing, swaggering dictator with delusions of godhood.
KIRK	Is that all?
SCOTT	No, sir. They also compared you with a Denebian slime devil.
KIRK	I see.
SCOTT	And then they said you
KIRK	I get the picture, Scotty.
SCOTT	Yes, sir.
KIRK	After they said all this, that's when you hit the Klingons?
SCOTT	No, sir.
KIRK	No?
SCOTT	No, I didn't. You told us to avoid trouble.
KIRK	Oh, yes.
SCOTT	And I didn't see that it was worth fighting about. After all, we're big enough to take a few insults. Aren't we?
KIRK	What was it they said that started the fight?
SCOTT	They called the Enterprise a garbage scow, sir.
KIRK	I see. And that's when you hit the Klingons?
SCOTT	Yes, sir.
KIRK	You hit the Klingons because they insulted the Enterprise, not because they
SCOTT	Well, sir, this was a matter of pride.
KIRK	All right, Scotty. Dismissed. Scotty, you're restricted to quarters until further notice.
SCOTT	Yes, sir. Thank you, sir. That'll give me a chance to catch up on my technical journals.
MCCOY	What's the matter, Spock?
SPOCK	There's something disquieting about these creatures.
MCCOY	Don't tell me you've got a feeling.
SPOCK	Don't be insulting, Doctor. They remind me of the lilies of the field. They toil not, neither do they spin. But they seem to eat a great deal. I see no practical use for them.
MCCOY	Does everything have to have a practical use for you? They're nice, soft, and furry, and they make a pleasant sound.
SPOCK	So would an ermine violin, but I see no advantage in having one.
MCCOY	It's a human characteristic to love little animals, especially if they're attractive in some way.
SPOCK	Doctor, I am well aware of human characteristics. I am frequently inundated by them, but I've trained myself to put up with practically anything.
MCCOY	Spock, I don't know too much about these little tribbles yet, but there's one thing that I have discovered.
SPOCK	What is that, Doctor?
MCCOY	I like them better than I like you.
SPOCK	Doctor?
MCCOY	Yes?
SPOCK	They do have one redeeming characteristic.
MCCOY	What's that?
SPOCK	They do not talk too much. If you'll excuse me, sir.
KIRK	Doctor McCoy, would you mind coming up to the bridge? Lieutenant Uhura, how did all these tribbles get on the bridge?
UHURA	I don't know, sir. They do seem to be all over the ship.
KIRK	Doctor McCoy.
MCCOY	Yes? Did you want to see me, Jim? Don't look at me. It's the tribbles who are breeding. If we don't get them off this ship, we're going to be hip deep in them.
KIRK	Explain that.
MCCOY	The nearest thing I can figure out is they're born pregnant, which seems to be quite a time saver.
KIRK	I know, but really
MCCOY	And from my observations, it seems they're bisexual, reproducing at will. And, brother, have they got a lot of will.
SPOCK	Captain, I am forced to agree with the doctor. I've been running computations on their rate of reproduction. The figures are taking an alarming direction. They're consuming our supplies and returning nothing.
UHURA	But they do give us something, Mister Spock. They give us love. Well, Cyrano Jones says a tribble is the only love that money can buy.
KIRK	Too much of anything, Lieutenant, even love, isn't necessarily a good thing.
UHURA	Yes, Captain.
KIRK	Get the maintenance crew to clean up the entire ship, and then contact Mister Lurry and tell him I'm beaming down.
UHURA	Aye, aye.
KIRK	Have him find Cyrano Jones and hold him.
UHURA	Aye.
KIRK	And get these tribbles off the bridge.
UHURA	Aye, aye, Captain.
JONES	Captain Kirk, I'm mystified at your tone of voice. I've done nothing to warrant such severe treatment.
KIRK	Oh, really?
SPOCK	Surely you must have realised what would happen if you removed the tribbles from their predator-filled environment into an environment where their natural multiplicative proclivities would have no restraining factors.
JONES	Of course. What did you say?
SPOCK	By removing the tribbles from their natural habitat, you have, so to speak, removed the cork from the bottle and allowed the genie to escape.
JONES	If by that, you mean do they breed quickly? Of course, that's how I maintain my stock. Breeding animals is not against regulations, only breeding dangerous ones. And tribbles are not dangerous.
KIRK	Just incredibly prolific.
JONES	Precisely, and at six credits a head, well, that is, a body, it mounts up. Now if you'll excuse me.
KIRK	You should sell an instruction and maintenance manual for this thing.
JONES	If I did, what would happen to man's search for knowledge? Well, I must be tending my ship. Au revoir.
DARVIN	Go ahead, sir. Tell him.
BARIS	Captain Kirk, I consider your security measures a disgrace. In my opinion, you have taken this important project far too lightly.
KIRK	On the contrary, sir. I think of this project as very important. It is you I take lightly.
BARIS	I am going to report fully to the proper authorities that you have given free and complete access to this station to a man who is quite probably a Klingon agent.
KIRK	That's a serious charge. To whom are you referring?
BARIS	To that man who just walked out of here.
KIRK	Cyrano Jones, a Klingon agent?
BARIS	You heard me.
KIRK	I heard you.
SPOCK	He simply could not believe his ears.
KIRK	What evidence do you have against Mister Jones?
BARIS	My assistant here has kept Mister Jones under close surveillance for quite some time, and his actions have been most suspicious. I believe he was involved in that little altercation between your men and the men from
KIRK	Yes, yes. Go on. What else do you have?
DARVIN	Well Captain, I've checked his ship's log, and it seems that he was within the Klingon's sphere of influence less than four months ago.
BARIS	The man is an independent scout, Captain. It is quite possible he is also a Klingon spy.
SPOCK	We have already checked on the background of Mister Cyrano Jones. He is a licensed asteroid locator and prospector. He's never broken the law, at least not severely. For the past seven years, with his one-man spaceship, he's obtained a marginal living by engaging in the buying and selling of rare merchandise, including, unfortunately, tribbles.
BARIS	But he is after my grain!
KIRK	Do you have any proof of that?
DARVIN	You can't deny he's disrupted this station.
KIRK	People have disrupted stations before without being Klingon agents. Sometimes, all they need is a title, Mister Baris. Unfortunately, disrupting a space station is not an offence. Now, if you'll excuse me, I have a ship to tend to. Au revoir.
KIRK	My chicken sandwich and coffee. This is my chicken sandwich and coffee.
SPOCK	Fascinating.
KIRK	I want these off the ship. I don't care if it takes every man we've got, I want them off the ship.
SCOTT	They're into the machinery, all right, and they're probably in all the other food processors too.
KIRK	How?
SCOTT	Probably through one of the air vents.
SPOCK	Captain, there are vents of that type on the space station.
KIRK	And in the storage compartments. This is Kirk. Contact Manager Lurry and Nilz Baris. Have them meet us near the storage compartments. We're beaming down. Come on, Spock.
KIRK	Energise.
LURRY	What's wrong?
KIRK	Plenty, if what I think's happened has happened.
KIRK	Is that door secure?
GUARD	Yes, sir. Nothing could get in.
KIRK	Good. Open it.
GUARD	It's not working, sir. It seems to be stuck.
KIRK	Here. Let me try it.
SPOCK	They seem to be gorged.
BARIS	Gorged? On my grain? Kirk, I am going to hold you responsible. There must be thousands of them.
KIRK	Hundreds of thousands.
SPOCK	One million seven hundred seventy one thousand five hundred sixty one. That's assuming one tribble, multiplying with an average litter of ten, producing a new generation every twelve hours over a period of three days.
KIRK	That's assuming they got here three days ago.
SPOCK	And allowing for the amount of grain consumed and the volume of the storage compartment.
BARIS	Kirk, you should have known. You are responsible for turning the development project into a total disaster.
KIRK	Mister Baris
BARIS	And I'm through being intimidated, Kirk. You have insulted me, you have ignored me, you've walked all over me. You have abused your authority, and you've rejected my requests. And this, this is the result. I'm going to hold you responsible.
KIRK	Mister Baris, I'll hold you in irons if you don't shut up.
MCCOY	Jim, I think I've got it. All we have to do is quit feeding them. We quit feeding them, they stop breeding.
KIRK	Now he tells me.
SPOCK	Captain this tribble is dead. And so are these.
MCCOY	A lot of them are dead. A lot of them are alive, but they won't be for long.
SPOCK	The logical assumption is that there is something in the grain.
KIRK	Yes. Bones, I want the tribbles, the grain, everything analysed. I want to know what killed these tribbles.
MCCOY	I haven't figured out what keeps them alive yet. All right, if I find out anything, I'll let you know.
BARIS	That isn't going to do you any good, Kirk. This project is ruined, and Starfleet is going to hear about it. And when they do, they will have a board of inquiry and they will roast you alive. And I am going to be there, Kirk, to enjoy every minute of it.
KIRK	Until that inquiry, I'm still the captain. And as Captain, I want two things done. First, find Cyrano Jones, and second close that door.
JONES	Really, Captain Kirk, I must protest this treatment.
KIRK	Ah, Mister Jones, with an armful. A few questions.
KOLOTH	Captain Kirk!
KIRK	What do you want?
KOLOTH	An official apology addressed to the Klingon High Command. I expect you to assume full responsibility for the persecution of Klingon nationals in this quadrant.
KIRK	An apology?
KOLOTH	Yes. You've harassed my men. You've treated them like criminals. You've been most uncourteous, Captain Kirk. If you wish to avoid a diplomatic incident
BARIS	No, Kirk. You can't let him. That will give them the wedge they need to claim Sherman's Planet.
SPOCK	I believe that more than the word of an aggrieved Klingon commander would be necessary for that, Mister Baris.
KOLOTH	Mister Spock, as far as Sherman's Planet is concerned, Captain Kirk has already given it to us.
KIRK	Well, we'll see about that, but before I take any official action, I'd like to know Just what happened. Who put the tribbles in the quadrotriticale? What was in the grain that killed them?
KOLOTH	Captain Kirk, before you go on, may I make a request?
KIRK	Yes.
KOLOTH	Can you get those things out of here?
SPOCK	Remarkable.
KIRK	Hold on a minute. I thought you said tribbles liked everybody.
JONES	They do. I can't understand it. The last time I saw one act this way was at the bar.
KIRK	What was in the bar?
JONES	Klingons. Him, for one.
KIRK	You're right, Mister Jones. They don't like Klingons. But they do like Vulcans. I didn't know you had it in you.
SPOCK	Obviously tribbles are very perceptive creatures, Captain.
KIRK	Obviously. Mister Baris, they like you. Well, there's no accounting for taste. They don't like you, Mister Darvin. I wonder why. Bones?
MCCOY	Heartbeat is all wrong. His body temperature is. Jim, this man is a Klingon.
BARIS	A Klingon?
KIRK	I wonder what Starfleet Command will say about that. What about the grain, Bones?
MCCOY	Oh, yes. It was poisoned.
BARIS	Poisoned?
MCCOY	Yes. It's been impregnated with a virus. The virus turns into an inert material in the bloodstream. The more the organism eats, the more inert matter is built up. So after two or three days, they reached a point where they couldn't take in enough nourishment to survive.
KIRK	They starved to death. In a storage compartment full of grain, they starved to death.
MCCOY	That is essentially it.
KIRK	Mister Darvin, are you going to talk?
DARVIN	I have nothing to say. All right, I poisoned the grain! Take them away.
KIRK	And the tribbles had nothing to do with it?
DARVIN	I don't know. I never saw one before in my life, and I hope I never see one of those fuzzy miserable things again.
BARIS	I'm certain that can be arranged, Darvin. Guards? If you'll excuse me, Captain.
KIRK	Captain Koloth. About that apology.
KOLOTH	Yes?
KIRK	You have six hours to get your ship out of Federation territory.
KIRK	You know, I think I could learn to like tribbles.
JONES	Well, Captain, I suppose I'm free to go now.
KIRK	No, you're not. There's something I want to show you. You know what the penalty is for transporting an animal proven harmful to human life?
JONES	Captain, one little tribble isn't harmful. Captain, you wouldn't do a thing like that to me, now would you? Would you?
SPOCK	The penalty is twenty years in a rehabilitation colony.
JONES	Captain Kirk. Friend. Friend Kirk. Surely we can come to some sort of mutual understanding. After all, my tribbles did put you wise to the poisoned grain, and they did help you to find the Klingon agent. You saved a lot of lives that way.
KIRK	There is one thing you can do.
JONES	Yes?
KIRK	Pick up every tribble on the space station. If you do that, I'll speak to Mister Lurry about returning your spaceship.
JONES	It would take years.
SPOCK	Seventeen point nine, to be exact.
JONES	Seventeen point nine years.
KIRK	Consider it Job security.
JONES	Captain, you're a hard man. All right! All right!
KIRK	You'll do it?
JONES	I'll do it.
SPOCK	Captain, Starfleet was able to divert that freighter.
KIRK	Good. That means Sherman's Planet will get its quadrotriticale only a few weeks late. I don't see any tribbles around here.
MCCOY	And you won't find a tribble on this entire ship.
KIRK	Bones, how did you do it?
MCCOY	I cannot take credit for another man's work. Scotty did it.
KIRK	Scotty! Where are the tribbles?
SCOTT	Oh, er, Captain, it was really Mister Spock's recommendation.
KIRK	Of course. Spock.
SPOCK	Based on computer analysis, of course, taking into account the possibilities of
KIRK	Gentlemen, I don't want to interrupt this mutual admiration society, but I'd like to know where the tribbles are.
MCCOY	Tell him, Spock.
SPOCK	Well, it was Mister Scott who performed the actual engineering.
KIRK	Mister Scott. Where are the tribbles?
SCOTT	I used the transporter, Captain.
KIRK	You used the transporter?
SCOTT	Aye.
KIRK	Where did you transport them? Scott, you didn't transport them into space, did you?
SCOTT	Captain Kirk, that'd be inhuman.
KIRK	Where are they?
SCOTT	I gave them a good home, sir.
KIRK	Where?
SCOTT	I gave them to the Klingons, sir.
KIRK	You gave them to the Klingons?
SCOTT	Aye, sir. Before they went into warp, I transported the whole kit and caboodle into their engine room, where they'll be no tribble at all.
