character	line
KIRK	Captain's Log, stardate 5029.5. Responding to a distress call from our scientific colony on Triacus. We are beaming down to investigate.
KIRK	Professor Starnes? It's Kirk.
MCCOY	He's dead, Captain.
KIRK	He didn't seem to know me.
MCCOY	Cyalodin.
KIRK	Self-inflicted.
STARNES	Must destroy ourselves! Alien upon us. The enemy from within. The enemy!
KIRK	All this. Self-inflicted. Mass suicide.
MARY	You missed me.
STEVE	I did not.
TOMMY	Hi. Who are you?
KIRK	Kirk of the starship Enterprise.
TOMMY	I'm Tommy Starnes. This is Mary, Steve, Ray, and Don.
MARY	Come on. Play with us. Come on. Ring around the rosy, pocket full of posy. Ashes, ashes, we all fall down! Ring around the rosy, pocket full of posy. Ashes, ashes, we all fall down!
KIRK	Captain's log, supplementary. We have buried the members of the Starnes exploration party. Everyone has been deeply affected by what has happened here, with some important exceptions.
MARY	Let's go and play.
KIRK	No sign of grief?
MCCOY	No, Jim. No indication of any kind.
KIRK	Or of fear.
MCCOY	They seem completely secure and unafraid.
KIRK	And you insist their behaviour indicates traumatic shock?
MCCOY	I don't insist, Jim, but I can't dismiss the possibility.
KIRK	A child suppresses the fact that both parents are dead? I can't believe it.
SPOCK	Humans do have an amazing capacity for believing what they choose and excluding that which is painful.
KIRK	Not these children, to this extent. It's incredible.
MCCOY	What those children saw is incredible, Jim. The way those deaths occurred, any reaction is possible including lacunar amnesia. That's my diagnosis. Until specific tests can be made, it remains that.
KIRK	I'll be guided by that opinion, Doctor, for the present. What about questioning them?
MCCOY	Not until the fabric of the traumatisation weakens or you come up with another explanation for their behaviour. Forcing them to see this experience now could cause permanent damage.
KIRK	Accepted, Doctor.
KIRK	Careful.
DON	I'm, I'm sorry, Captain Kirk.
KIRK	Children. Children, listen to me. It's late and it's time to go up to the ship.
DON	Oh, not yet.
MARY	But we're just beginning to have fun.
RAY	Not now.
KIRK	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You'll go up with the doctor.
MCCOY	Come on. It's time to be going.
KIRK	Whatever happened here is locked up inside those children.
SPOCK	The attack on Professor Starnes' party must surely have been unprovoked.
KIRK	Attack? Mass suicide is what it seems to be.
SPOCK	I stand corrected, Captain. Induced would be a more precise term. Induced by an outside force.
KIRK	Such as?
SPOCK	The release of bacteria. Or a helpless mental depression and a state of suicidal anxiety could have been chemically induced.
KIRK	What would make the children immune?
SPOCK	I do not know, but it is possible.
KIRK	Then the children would have been exempted by conscious design.
SPOCK	A valid assumption, I would say.
KIRK	And their present behaviour explained by a fear of punishment. SPOCK: Or the promise of reward.
KIRK	An attack by an unknown assailant on an uninhabited planet. This planet is uninhabited, Mister Spock, to the best of our information?
SPOCK	At present, yes. Odd.
KIRK	Getting a reading?
SPOCK	There seems to be some disturbance coming from that cave.
KIRK	Picking up any life-forms, Mister Spock?
SPOCK	Definitely not humanoid, Captain. Impossible to make any specific identification. The readings do not correlate with any known information.
KIRK	Oh, that's strange. That's very strange. I'm getting a feeling of anxiety in this place. It doesn't sound very scientific, does it? But it's strongest right here.
SPOCK	I'm not aware of it, Captain.
KIRK	Maybe that's what's registering on your tricorder.
SPOCK	I am not familiar with anxiety, but I wasn't aware it could be registered on sensors.
KIRK	No, of course. That's, that's me. That's me. But what's causing your tricorder to react?
SPOCK	Are you all right, Captain?
KIRK	Yes, I'm fine. I'm fine. Just some sympathetic vibration with what happened here. Let's get back to the ship. I want to check out those tapes from Professor Starnes' tricorder. And I am going to question those children.
CHAPEL	All right, children. Each card is a different flavour. You take your pick, and the computer will mix your favourite combination. Now, what would you like? Call out your favourites.
ALL	Vanilla! Chocolate! Cherry! Banana!
CHAPEL	Well, would you like a surprise, Stevie?
STEVE	It's coconut and vanilla. They're both white.
CHAPEL	There, there now, Stevie. There are unpleasant surprises as well as pleasant ones. That was your unpleasant surprise. Now, what would you like for your pleasant surprise?
STEVE	Chocolate wobble and pistachio.
CHAPEL	Well, coming right up.
STEVE	And peach.
CHAPEL	All right. It's going to be a wonderful surprise.
MCCOY	The tests show no evidence of tensions due to lying. They behave as though nothing had gone wrong. They check out sound physically. There are no signs of any foreign biochemical substances to account for their present state. I have no answers, Jim.
KIRK	There has to be an answer.
MCCOY	Well, can't it wait till we get to a Starbase hospital so they can be checked out by child specialists?
KIRK	We're not leaving here until we find out what went on or what's going on.
MCCOY	Well, I won't prevent you questioning them, but it could harm the children if you do.
KIRK	It could be far worse for them if I don't, and for us too.
MCCOY	Be careful.
CHAPEL	After this, we can all play games.
KIDS	Yeah.
CHAPEL	How do you like getting ice cream out of a computer?
MARY	That was fun.
KIRK	Well, well, well. You're all having such a good time, I think I'll join you. Is that all right?
MARY	Please do.
KIRK	I'll have a dish, too.
CHAPEL	Oh, of course.
KIRK	A little one. A very small one. It's better than Triacus, isn't it?
DON	That dirty old planet?
RAY	What's so good about that place?
STEVE	Yeah?
MARY	You weren't there very long. You don't know.
KIRK	I don't think your parents liked it very much either.
TOMMY	Yes, they did.
STEVE	Yeah. Mine sure did.
DON	Parents like stupid things.
CHAPEL	Oh, I don't know about that. Parents like children.
MARY	Ha. That's what you think.
KIRK	I'm sure your parents loved you. That's why they took you with them to Triacus. So they wouldn't be so far away from you for such a long time. That would make them very unhappy and miss you. I'm sure that you would miss them, too.
TOMMY	Busy, busy.
ALL	Busy. Busy. Busy! Busy!
DON	Guess what we are.
CHAPEL	I know. A swarm of bees.
MARY	Watch out. Watch out. I'll sting you.
KIRK	Now wait a minute.
TOMMY	Can we have some more ice cream, please?
KIRK	No, I don't think so. It'll spoil your dinner.
TOMMY	See what I told you? They all say it.
MARY	Yeah.
KIRK	All right, children, you've had a busy day. I think you could use some rest. Nurse Chapel will see you to your quarters.
CHAPEL	Very good idea, Captain.
MARY	Aw, do we have to?
KIRK	Tommy, Just a moment. I'd like to ask you a question. Come and sit down. Tommy, will you tell me what you saw?
TOMMY	Saw where?
KIRK	In the cave, on the planet. On Triacus.
TOMMY	You were there.
KIRK	Did you see your father today?
TOMMY	I saw him.
KIRK	Did he seem upset?
TOMMY	Yeah, he was very upset.
KIRK	What about?
TOMMY	I didn't ask him.
KIRK	What was going on that would have upset him?
TOMMY	How should I know? He was always upset, just like you, Captain Kirk.
KIRK	I'm not upset with you, Tommy, or your friends. We invited you aboard the Enterprise. Why would I do that if I didn't like you?
TOMMY	You have your reasons.
KIRK	Aren't you unhappy about leaving Triacus?
TOMMY	That place? That's for adults.
KIRK	Aren't you upset about leaving your parents?
TOMMY	My parents? They love it down there. Always busy. They're happy. Can I go now? I'm tired too, you know.
KIRK	Yes, certainly. I'll take you.
TOMMY	I know the way.
KIRK	Kirk to security. Post a guard on the children. They're to be kept under constant watch.
ALL	Hail, hail, fire and snow. Call the angel, we will go. Far away, for to see, friendly Angel come to me. Hail, hail, fire and snow. Call the angel, we will go. Far away, for to see, friendly Angel come to me. Hail, hail
GORGON	You have done very well, my friends. You have done what must be done. You have come aboard the Enterprise. Now our destination is a Federation settlement. Captain Kirk will undoubtedly choose a closer station. Do not let that deter you. Marcos Twelve has millions of people on it. Nearly a million will join us as our friends. The rest will be our enemies. Together with our other friends who will join us, we will defeat our enemies as we defeated them on Triacus. A million friends on Marcos will make us invincible. No one will tell us where to go, when to sleep, where to eat. The universe will be mine to command, yours to play in. To accomplish this great mission, we must first control the Enterprise. To control the ship, we first must control the crew. You know how to do that. That is your next task. And as you believe, so shall you do, so shall you do. As you believe, so shall you do, so shall you do. As you believe, so shall you do, so shall you do.
SULU	Maintaining standard orbit, Captain.
KIRK	Lieutenant Uhura, any report from the planet security team?
UHURA	Everything is quiet, sir.
SPOCK	Captain, I have extracted the salient portion of Professor Starnes' tapes.
KIRK	Good.
SPOCK	Among the technical facts he gathered, Professor Starnes also offered some rather unscientific hypotheses.
KIRK	Let's see them.
STARNES	Log date 5025.3. Ever since our arrival on Triacus, I've felt a certain growing feeling of uneasiness. At first I attributed it to the usual case of nerves associated with any new project. However, I've found that the rest of my associates are also bothered by these anxieties. The only ones not affected are the children Bless them, they find the whole thing an exciting adventure. Ah, to be young again.
KIRK	Let's see some more of these unscientific hypotheses, Mister Spock.
STARNES	5032.4. The feeling of anxiety we've all been experiencing is growing worse.
SPOCK	There is another portion, Captain, which I believe you'll find particularly interesting.
STARNES	5038.3. Professor Wilkins finished his excavation today. Although whatever civilisation that might have been here was destroyed by some natural catastrophe, it would appear that one of the race took refuge in the cave. And, for our efforts, we are becoming only more apprehensive. As if some unseen force were influencing us.
KIRK	What happened?
SPOCK	Unknown.
KIRK	I didn't see you come in, Tommy.
TOMMY	Captain, after we leave here, can you take us to Marcos Twelve?
KIRK	No. We'll probably take you to a Federation Starbase.
TOMMY	But I have relatives on Marcos Twelve.
KIRK	I'm sorry, Tommy. Marcos Twelve is not within our patrol area. Mister Spock, we'll pursue this in my quarters.
TOMMY	Captain, can I stay here and watch? I'll be very quiet.
KIRK	All right, Tommy. Lieutenant, have Doctor McCoy report to my quarters for a brief conference. Mister Leslie?
SULU	Hi there.
TOMMY	Hi.
TOMMY	What is that?
SULU	The planet Triacus.
TOMMY	Will we see that all the time we stay here?
CHEKOV	Yes, we will. All the time we're here.
MARY	He sees Triacus on the screen.
TOMMY	He thinks he sees it.
UHURA	Mister Sulu, the screen. We're out of orbit.
MARY	Will we reach Marcos Twelve soon?
TOMMY	Very soon.
SCOTT	When did we change course?
MAN	We haven't changed course.
SCOTT	What do you mean, we haven't changed course? Look at your bridge control monitor.
MAN	We're still in orbit, sir.
SCOTT	Have you gone completely blind? That's not orbiting position.
MAN	Don't touch the controls, sir.
SCOTT	What the devil do you think you're doing?
MAN	We must remain in this orbit till the bridge orders a change.
SCOTT	You blind fool! Can't you see in front of you? We're not in orbit.
MAN	I will not disobey an order from the bridge.
SCOTT	You are disobeying an order from the bridge. Now step aside.
MAN	You're losing control of yourself.
SCOTT	Not yet.
STARNES	I'm being influenced to do things that do not make sense. I even went so far as to call Starfleet Command to request a spaceship to be used as a transport. It was only when I couldn't tell them what I wanted to transport that I began to realise that my mind was being directed. I decided to send a dispatch to Starfleet, warning them. God forgive us. Must destroy ourselves! Alien upon us. The enemy from within. The enemy!
SPOCK	He never completed the entry, and the dispatch was never sent. Except for scenes of family life, games and picnics with the children, that is the complete record. Whatever overwhelmed them must have done so with incredible speed. Otherwise, the professor would have provided details of the experience. He was an excellent scientist and tireless in his pursuit of the truth.
KIRK	That could be what destroyed him.
SPOCK	Possible, Captain. Evil does seek to maintain power by suppressing the truth.
MCCOY	Or by misleading the innocent.
KIRK	Misleading the innocent? I wonder.
MCCOY	Do you mean the children may be involved?
KIRK	Yes, Doctor. Spock what do we know about the race that lived here?
SPOCK	According to the legend, Triacus was the seat of a band of marauders who made constant war throughout the system of Epsilon Indi. After many centuries, the destroyers were themselves destroyed by those they had preyed upon.
KIRK	Is that the end of it?
SPOCK	No, like so many legends, this one too has a frightening ending. It warns that the evil is awaiting a catalyst to set it again into motion and send it marauding across the galaxy.
KIRK	Is it possible that the evil found the catalyst?
SPOCK	I was speaking of a legend, Captain.
KIRK	But most legends have their basis in fact, Spock.
MCCOY	I think I read you, Jim, but as medical officer I must warn you that unless the normal grief is tapped and released from these children, you are treading dangerously.
KIRK	I understand your diagnosis, Doctor, and I'll respect it. But not to the exclusion and safety of the Enterprise. Thank you.
KIRK	Spock, what other expeditions have visited Triacus?
SPOCK	According to Federation records, this is the first.
KIRK	What was it Professor Starnes said about the unseen force?
SPOCK	He said an unseen force was influencing him, that he recognised it, was beginning to fight it and cancelled his request for a ship.
KIRK	A ship. Yes, a ship for Triacus. But why? By whom? Security detachment. Ready for relief duty on Triacus. Assemble in the transporter room immediately. I'll have some questions for that planet detachment as soon as they're beamed up. I think it's about time we found out whether Professor Starnes' enemy within is on the planet below or here onboard ship with us. Come on.
KIRK	Your tour of duty will last one hour. Be prepared with your communicators at all times to report any alien beings. Don't wait to investigate. Beam down the guards.
KIRK	Beam up the security detachment from Triacus. Spock? What's wrong?
SPOCK	I am unable to lock on to the proper co-ordinates.
KIRK	Why not?
SPOCK	It appears we are no longer orbiting Triacus.
KIRK	That's impossible. If we're not orbiting Triacus, then the men I beamed down are dead.
SPOCK	Captain, we are no longer orbiting Triacus.
KIRK	Activate the bridge monitor screen.
KIRK	Captain to Bridge.
KIRK	Mister Sulu, we're not orbiting Triacus.
SULU	With all respects, Captain, you're wrong. I have Triacus on my screen now.
KIRK	You're off course. I'm coming right up.
ALL	Hail, hail, fire and snow. Call the angel, we will go. Far away, far to see, friendly Angel come to me.
KIRK	Sulu!
ALL	Fire and snow. Call the angel, we will go. Far away, far to see, friendly Angel come to me.
GORGON	Friends we have reached a moment of crisis. The enemy have discovered our operation, but they are too late. They no longer control the ship. We do. We shall prevail. They will take us any place we desire. Go back to your stations. Maintain your controls. If resistance mounts, call upon their beast. Their beast will serve us well. The fear in each one of them is the beast which will consume him. Remember how it was on Triacus. If they resist, so shall it be on the Enterprise. If you need me, call and I will appear. Our new goal is Marcos Twelve. It is our new beginning. We must not falter.
TOMMY	Go to your stations. Mary, you remain here with me.
KIRK	Helmsman, disregard what you see on the screen, what you think you see on the screen. Set a course for Starbase Four.
KIRK	Helmsman, did you hear me?
SULU	Yes, sir.
KIRK	Lieutenant Uhura, contact Starbase Four. Tell them we're bringing the children there. Tell Starfleet Command I suspect them of being alien in nature, and I want a thorough investigation made upon our arrival.
UHURA	Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK	Lieutenant, what are you staring at?
UHURA	I see my death. A long death. Disease and pain. I see my death.
KIRK	Lieutenant, there's nothing there.
UHURA	Oh, God. Captain, don't let it be.
KIRK	Mister Spock, you make the call to Starfleet. Mister Sulu, I ordered you to change course. Mister Sulu
SULU	Captain, stay away from the controls! If you touch them, we'll be destroyed.
KIRK	Mister Sulu, there's nothing there.
SPOCK	Captain, why are we bothering Starfleet?
KIRK	That was an order, Spock.
SPOCK	This bridge is under complete control.
KIRK	Complete?
SPOCK	There is no need.
KIRK	Take a look around you.
SPOCK	I cannot obey your order, Captain.
KIRK	Take Mister Sulu to his quarters. He is relieved of duty.
KIRK	Confine them to quarters. Did you hear me? Did you hear me?
SPOCK	Captain, we must get off this bridge.
KIRK	Yes, we must. I'm losing command. I'm losing my ability to command. I'm losing the Enterprise.
KIRK	I'm losing command. I'm losing the Enterprise. The ship is sailing on and on. I'm alone. Alone. Alone. I'm losing command.
SPOCK	Captain.
KIRK	I've lost command. I've lost the Enterprise.
SPOCK	Jim.
KIRK	I've got command. I've got command. I've got command.
SPOCK	Correct, Captain.
SPOCK	Where to, Captain?
KIRK	Auxiliary control, my Vulcan friend. This ship is off course.
KIRK	Scotty. I want you to override the bridge navigation system and plot a course for Starbase Four.
SCOTT	I can't do that, sir.
KIRK	Why not?
SCOTT	These are very sensitive instruments. I will not have you upset their delicate balance. We would all be lost, forever lost. Go away now. Go away or we'll kill you.
KIRK	Scotty, listen to me. The Enterprise has been invaded by alien beings. Its destination is Marcos. If we take it there, millions will die the way they died at Triacus.
KIRK	No, I'm all right, Spock. My beast is finished. It won't return.
SPOCK	Captain, so long as the children are present, there is danger. They are the carriers.
KIRK	Spock, they're not the alien beings. They're children being misled.
SPOCK	They are followers. Without followers, evil cannot spread.
KIRK	They're children.
SPOCK	Captain, the four hundred and thirty men and women on board the Enterprise and the ship itself are endangered by these children.
KIRK	They don't understand the evil that they're doing.
SPOCK	Perhaps that is true, but the evil that is within them is spreading fast, and unless we can find a way to remove it
KIRK	We'll have to kill them. Captain Kirk.
KIRK	What is it, Ensign?
CHEKOV	I have been instructed to place you and Mister Spock under arrest.
KIRK	By whose order?
CHEKOV	Starfleet Command, sir.
KIRK	Where did you hear this order, Ensign? Now, listen to me. This order is false. I want you and your men to return to their stations.
CHEKOV	I'm sorry, but I must insist you and Mister Spock come with me to the detention section.
KIRK	Ensign, listen to me.
CHEKOV	Do not force me to kill you, sir. I will if I have to. Will you come peacefully, Captain?
KIRK	Ensign, listen to me. This is a false order, Ensign.
CHEKOV	I have never disobeyed an order, Captain. You know I have never
KIRK	I know that, Ensign. You have never disobeyed an order, but an alien being is aboard this ship.
CHEKOV	I will not disobey now! I cannot disobey!
KIRK	Ensign, listen to me. You will disobey this order! Starfleet Command supersedes your order, sir!
KIRK	Enough. Take these men to detention then join me on the bridge.
KIRK	The Enterprise will never reach Marcos Twelve. We will not be landing there.
TOMMY	The crew will take us. The crew believes.
KIRK	The crew does not understand. When we make them understand as I understand, they won't take you to Marcos.
MARY	They will! They will!
TOMMY	We are going to Marcos! We are going to follow our friend!
KIRK	Your friend? Where is your friend? Where is that stowaway? Why does he hide?
MARY	He will come if we call him.
TOMMY	But we won't. We don't need him. We're not afraid of you.
KIRK	Good. I'm glad you're not afraid of me. But your leader is afraid. What's he afraid of?
MARY	He's not afraid of anybody.
TOMMY	He's not afraid of anything.
KIRK	He's afraid to be seen. And when the crew sees and hears him, they'll understand that he is not their friend, and they won't follow him.
TOMMY	He is our friend.
KIRK	Then let him show himself. Bring him out! Let him prove to me that he is my friend and I'll follow him to Marcos Twelve and to the ends of the universe!
TOMMY	No!
KIRK	Mister Spock, playback the chant the children sang to summon up the Gorgan.
ALL	Hail, hail, fire and snow. Call the angel, we will go. Far away, for to see, friendly Angel come to me. Hail, hail, fire and snow. Call the angel, we will go. Far away, for to see, friendly Angel come to me.
KIRK	The time has come to see the world as it is. Come on.
GORGAN	Who has summoned me?
KIRK	I did, Gorgan. My beast is gone. It lost its power in the light of reality. I command again, and I ordered you here.
GORGAN	No, Captain. I command here. My followers are strong and faithful and obedient. That's why we take what is ours wherever we go.
SPOCK	You take from those who do not know you.
KIRK	And we know you.
GORGAN	Then you know I must win, Captain.
KIRK	Not if we join together to fight you.
GORGON	Foolish. You will be destroyed. I would ask you to join me, but you are gentle, and that is a grave weakness.
KIRK	We're also very strong.
GORGAN	Ah, but your strength is cancelled by your gentleness. You are full of goodness. Such as you cannot be changed. You are like the parents. You must be eliminated.
KIRK	Children, I have pictures of some of you on Triacus. I'd like to show them to you. Would you like to see them? Mister Spock, the pictures.
GORGAN	I forbid it.
SPOCK	Why should you fear it?
GORGAN	I fear nothing.
KIRK	So we were told. Mister Spock, the pictures. The children are waiting.
GORGAN	They would not help transport us. They were against us. They had to be eliminated.
SPOCK	Tommy's father would have destroyed you, but he recognised you too late.
GORGAN	You are also too late. The kind ones always are.
KIRK	Not always, Gorgan. Not this time. You can't hide from them. They see you as we see you. They know what you are. Even the children learn.
GORGAN	You are my future generals. Together we can raise armies of followers. Go to your posts! The first great victories are upon us. You will see. We have millions of friends on Marcos Twelve. We shall exterminate all who oppose us! Our purity of purpose cannot be contaminated by those who disagree, who will not co-operate, who do not understand. They must be annihilated.
KIRK	Don't be afraid. Look at him. Without you children, he's nothing. The evil remains within him.
GORGAN	I command you! I command you! To your posts! Carry out your duties, or I will destroy you! You will be swept aside to make way for the strong.
KIRK	Look how ugly he really is. Look at him and don't be afraid.
GORGAN	Death. Death to you all. Death to you all. Death to you all. Death to you all.
KIRK	It's all right.
MCCOY	They're crying, Jim. I don't know how it happened, but it's good to see.
KIRK	It's all right, Mary. It's all right. It's all right, isn't it, Doctor?
MCCOY	Yes. It's all right. We can help them now.
SULU	Marcos Twelve dead ahead, sir.
KIRK	Reverse course, Mister Sulu.
SULU	Aye, sir.
SULU	Course reversed, Captain.
KIRK	Set course for Starbase Four, Mister Sulu.
SULU	Yes, sir.
