character	line
SPOCK	Passing outer planet, Zeon.
KIRK	We want the inner one, Ekos. Plot a standard orbit, Mister Chekov, and take us in.
CHEKOV	Aye, sir.
KIRK	Lieutenant Uhura, raise John Gill on Starfleet communications.
UHURA	Aye, aye, sir.
MCCOY	Starfleet's been trying for six months. If he's alive, isn't it unlikely that he'd receive us now?
KIRK	I don't know, Bones. We're here to find out what's happened because I don't know.
SPOCK	I never met John Gill, but I studied Earth history from the text he prepared.
KIRK	I knew him very well. He was my instructor at the Academy.
SPOCK	What impressed me most was his treatment of Earth history as causes and motivations rather than dates and events.
UHURA	Captain, no response on any Starfleet channel.
CHEKOV	Spacecraft approaching from inner planet.
KIRK	From Ekos?
SPOCK	Yes, but it must be a Zeon ship. Zeons do have a crude interplanetary capability. Reaction powered. A small rocket. It is on an intercept course. That would mean it has sophisticated detection devices which neither Zeon nor Ekos should have.
KIRK	Have you raised anyone, Lieutenant?
UHURA	Nothing, sir.
SPOCK	Captain, it's an unmanned probe which seems to be carrying a warhead.
KIRK	Stand by phasers.
CHEKOV	Phasers ready.
KIRK	Range, Mister Chekov?
CHEKOV	Two thousand kilometres, closing fast.
KIRK	Fire.
SPOCK	Fascinating. A thermonuclear warhead.
MCCOY	That's generations ahead of where these people should be technically. How'd they manage that?
KIRK	Maybe they had help. Maximum orbit. Take us out of range of their detection range.
SPOCK	Most interesting. We were attacked by a thermonuclear missile from a planet which should have no such weapon.
CHEKOV	Orbit computed and locked in, sir.
KIRK	Execute.
UHURA	Captain, no response from John Gill on any channel.
MCCOY	He must be dead. And what's going on down there on Ekos?
SPOCK	According to our records, the Ekosians are a primitive, warlike people in a state of anarchy. The other planet, Zeon, has a relatively high technology, and its people are peaceful.
KIRK	We've run into a far more serious problem than the disappearance of John Gill. Spock, you and I will beam down. Bones, one precaution. Prepare a subcutaneous transponder in the event we can't use our communicators.
KIRK	Insert the transponders. Make one low pass to communication range in three hours. If we fail to make contact at the appointed time, take our co-ordinates from the transponder and beam us aboard no matter what our condition may be.
SCOTT	Aye, sir. Whatever your condition.
KIRK	You ready?
SPOCK	Ready, Captain.
KIRK	Energise.
SPOCK	The Ekosians are humanoid, so there is apt to be a similarity in architecture. Interesting.
ISAK	Hide! They're right behind me. Hide! Hide!
YELLOW	Zeon pig. On your feet, pig.
SPOCK	Captain, the non-interference Directive.
YELLOW	Hold. Your hands above your head, Zeon. Higher. Keep your hands up so you don't touch anything Ekosian. You swine have defiled us for the last time. But that's now ended. Move!
KIRK	Unbelievable. Do you recognise those uniforms?
SPOCK	Mid-twentieth century Earth. The nation state called Nazi Germany.
MAN	Attention. Attention. Attention. An announcement from Fuhrer Headquarters. Today, the Fuhrer has ordered our glorious capital to be made Zeon-free. Starting at dawn, our heroic troops have begun flushing out the Zeon monsters who've been poisoning our planet.
KIRK	How could this have happened? The chances of another planet developing a culture like Nazi Germany, using the forms, the symbols, the uniforms of twentieth century Earth are so fantastically slim.
SPOCK	Virtually impossible, Captain, yet the evidence is quite clear.
MAN	The Fuhrer's headquarters reports repulsing an attack by Zeon spacecraft. Our missiles utterly destroyed the enemy.
KIRK	You look quite well for a man who's been utterly destroyed, Mister Spock.
CROWD	Sieg heil! Sieg heil!
MAN	At this patriotic demonstration, Deputy Fuhrer Melakon presented the Iron Cross, second class, to Daras, hero of the Fatherland. Everywhere, preparations go forward toward the Final Decision, death to Zeon. Long live the Fatherland. Long live the Fuhrer.
KIRK	That's John Gill. The Fuhrer?
SPOCK	Fascinating.
SOLDIER	You, Zeons! What kind of monsters are the Zeons sending against us?
KIRK	You're right. He's not one of us.
SOLDIER	What do you mean?
KIRK	Look at him.
KIRK	Spock, take his uniform.
SPOCK	You propose we pass ourselves off as Nazis, Captain?
KIRK	If John Gill is the Fuhrer it would seem the logical approach.
SPOCK	That's very well taken, Captain.
KIRK	That helmet covers a multitude of sins.
OFFICER	Lieutenant, what have we here? A Zeon?
SPOCK	Yes. Obviously he's not one of us. I captured him. Is that not correct procedure with enemies of the Fatherland?
OFFICER	With all Zeon pigs, Lieutenant.
SPOCK	Take charge of him.
OFFICER	With pleasure. Today we have a surprise planned for you, Zeon.
SPOCK	Your uniform, Captain.
KIRK	Yes, it's a shame yours isn't as attractive as mine. Gestapo, I believe.
SPOCK	Quite correct. You should make a very convincing Nazi.
MAJOR	Lieutenant! Have you forgotten how to salute? Your papers.
KIRK	Your orders, Lieutenant. He wants to see your orders in the jacket. The Lieutenant's a little dazed. He captured several Zeons single-handed. One of the pigs struck him before he dropped. I promise you that pig will never get up again.
MAJOR	Good work, Lieutenant.
KIRK	Hail the Fuhrer.
MAJOR	Hail to the Fuhrer.
KIRK	This is a day to remember, Major.
MAJOR	Lieutenant? Better see a doctor. You don't look well. Your colour.
SPOCK	Yes. I shall tend to it, Major.
MAJOR	Lieutenant! Your helmet. Remove it.
KIRK	We have urgent business with the Fuhrer.
MAJOR	Lieutenant, remove your helmet.
MAJOR	Enough. do you wish to speak now? Tell me your orders! You were sent to kill our Fuhrer. Confess! Do you want some more persuasion?
KIRK	You're making this a rather one-sided conversation, Major.
MAJOR	Do not joke with me, Zeon pig. Who is this alien? Things might go easier if you tell me about him.
KIRK	Let me speak to your Fuhrer. I'll tell him everything he wants to know.
MAJOR	You'll be glad to talk to me before I'm through.
ENEG	Major.
MAJOR	Ah, Chairman Eneg. Your Excellency, I am honoured. I've been interrogating these spies, captured in
ENEG	I've had a full report. You are not from Zeon.
SPOCK	Obviously.
ENEG	Where do you come from?
KIRK	I'll explain when I see the Fuhrer.
ENEG	What is your business with the Fuhrer?
KIRK	I'll discuss that only with him.
MAJOR	Pig! You're speaking to the Chairman of the Party.
ENEG	That's enough, Major. What were the weapons found on you? What design? Our famous SS laboratories have been unable to discover how the weapons work.
MAJOR	Excellency, give me a few minutes with them. I promise you, I'll have
ENEG	You've had a few minutes without result. The trouble with you SS is that you don't realise that punishment becomes ineffective after a certain point. Men become insensitive.
MAJOR	Yes, Excellency.
ENEG	Lock them up. Let their pain argue with them. Then I will question them.
MAJOR	Excellency, the standing order is to interrogate and execute. The interrogation is finished, therefore
ENEG	Finished? What have you learned? Hold them for an hour.
MAJOR	Excellency, the order
ENEG	That is my order, Major. I suggest you do not disobey it.
MAJOR	Yes, Excellency. All right, pigs. I shall keep my eye on the clock. When the hour is up, you will die most unpleasantly, I promise you! Lock them up.
KIRK	John Gill was the kindest, gentlest man I ever knew. For him to be a Nazi is impossible.
ISAK	Why did they take you? You're not a Zeon. He certainly is not one. Why do the Nazis treat you as enemies?
SPOCK	Why do the Nazis hate Zeons?
ISAK	Why? Because without us to hate, there'd be nothing to hold them together. So the Party has built us into a threat, a disease to be wiped out.
SPOCK	Is Zeon a threat to them?
ISAK	Where did you come from? Our warlike period ended dozens of generations ago. We came here. We thought we were civilising the Ekosians.
SPOCK	It would seem the assumption was premature.
KIRK	Were they like this when you first came?
ISAK	Warlike, yes, but not vicious. That started when the Nazi movement began only a few years ago.
SPOCK	That would coincide with the time of John Gill's arrival.
ISAK	When they've destroyed us here, they will attack our planet. They'll use the technology we gave them. The danger is that taking life is so repugnant to our people, I'm afraid we'll go down without a struggle. But after what I saw in the street today, I think I could kill.
KIRK	Do you know the plan of this building?
ISAK	Why?
KIRK	If we can get to the SS weapons laboratory, get our weapons back, we might be able to stop the slaughter.
ISAK	Why should you be interested in saving Zeons?
KIRK	We must get our communicators, contact the ship.
SPOCK	Captain, the flaw in the plan is this locked door, and the guard beyond it. To the logical mind, the outlook is somewhat gloomy.
KIRK	The transponders.
SPOCK	Yes.
KIRK	And a way to shed some light on the gloom, Mister Spock.
SPOCK	Of course. The rubindium crystals in the transponders.
ISAK	Are you trying to kill yourselves?
KIRK	I know it's there. McCoy put it in. There. Do you have the figures computed?
SPOCK	Yes. We must hold the crystals rigidly at a specific distance, which I believe should be twenty seven point two millimetres.
SPOCK	Twenty seven point two millimetres would be, approximately, there. That is, of course, a crude estimation.
ISAK	What is it you're making, some kind of radio?
KIRK	No, not a radio. The power from this light is very low.
SPOCK	Yes. To reach that light, I shall require some sort of platform.
KIRK	I would be honoured, Mister Spock.
SPOCK	Now, the rubindium crystals should find enough power here to achieve the necessary stimulus. As I recall from the history of physics, the ancient lasers were able to achieve the necessary excitation, even using crude natural crystals.
KIRK	Oh, Mister Spock, the guard did a professional job on my back. I'd appreciate it if you'd hurry.
SPOCK	Yes, of course, Captain. You realise that the aim will of course be very crude.
KIRK	I don't care if you hit the broad side of a barn. Just hurry, please.
SPOCK	Captain, why should I aim at such a structure?
KIRK	Never mind, Spock. Just get on with the job.
KIRK	Oh, my goodness. Beautiful. Oh, Spock Spock! Beautiful. Over there. I'll create a commotion.
KIRK	Help! Help! I'll talk! I'll talk! I can't stand it anymore! I'll talk! Guard! Guard, I'll talk!
KIRK	Guard, I'll talk. I'll talk. The pain
ISAK	Take me with you. Give me a chance to fight them.
SPOCK	May I remind you, we did not intend to fight.
ISAK	Take me with you, or you'll never find the laboratory.
KIRK	Take him with us, Mister Spock. He's got a point. He's our guide.
KIRK	Which is the laboratory door?
ISAK	The end of the hall.
KIRK	All right, Zeon pigs, move. Zeon pigs. They do nothing right. Don't worry. They're on their way to the laboratory, for experimental work. They'll pay. Move!
KIRK	Move, move.
KIRK	Cover the door.
KIRK	Here they are. The communicators, disassembled. Can you get one to work?
SPOCK	Possibly.
ISAK	Who are you people?
KIRK	The phasers?
SPOCK	I do not see them.
ISAK	Where do you come from?
KIRK	The alien pistols have been sent to Gestapo Command Headquarters. Well, that takes care of the phasers.
KIRK	You Zeons, for peaceful people, are pretty thorough.
ISAK	Yes. With this uniform, we can steal a car, get out of the capital.
KIRK	We came for John Gill.
SPOCK	Captain, without phasers, and until we are able to communicate with the ship, it is illogical to assume that we can hold out against the entire military force of this planet.
KIRK	All right, Mister Spock. You've made your point. Get into the uniform and hide those ears again.
KIRK	Hunting's good. We've caught so many Zeons, we've got to dump them outside.
DAVOD	Who's with you?
ISAK	It's all right. They helped me escape from the prison. I owe them my life.
ABROM	Isak, what is all this?
ISAK	Abrom! Abrom, thank God you're well. This is my brother. They were in the prison. Beaten as I was, Abrom.
ABROM	Why were you in their prison?
KIRK	I was trying to see the Fuhrer.
ABROM	The Fuhrer?
KIRK	If I can see him, there may be a way of stopping this insanity.
ISAK	Abrom, I owe them my life.
ABROM	Isak, Uletta is dead. Shot down in the streets.
ISAK	She would've been my wife.
ABROM	She lived for five hours while they walked past her and spat on her. Our own people were unable to help her. Now you ask me to help strangers.
ISAK	If we adopt the ways of the Nazis, we're as bad as the Nazis.
SPOCK	Captain, I suggest the most profitable use of our time would be to reassemble our communicators. May I work undisturbed somewhere?
ABROM	This way.
SPOCK	By using parts from both, I've completed one communicator. I do not know if the circuits are correct, Captain. There is no way to test it, except in actual use.
KIRK	The Enterprise won't be within range for another hour.
DARAS	Over there. Against the wall, all of you.
KIRK	The girl on the viewscreen.
SPOCK	The one receiving a medal.
KIRK	Daras.
DARAS	Quiet. Hands in the air, Zeon swine. So you're the three who escaped from the Chancellery detention centre. What was your plan? Speak. It's the last chance you'll get.
KIRK	I must see the Fuhrer. It's urgent.
DARAS	Urgent? I'll bet it is.
ABROM	I alone am responsible for what happens here.
DARAS	Do you know what we do to responsible Zeons?
DARAS	Now we finish the job.
ISAK	Stop, Nazis. After you've killed the last of us off, what do you do, turn the guns against yourselves?
ISAK	Don't shoot. Don't shoot, please.
ABROM	No, wait. No more. You've proved they're on our side.
ISAK	Now, please forgive us, but we had to be absolutely certain.
ABROM	Yes. If we had taken you into our confidence, we could've betrayed all our people if you'd been Nazi spies. All right, leave us.
ISAK	The Gestapo methods are frighteningly efficient. We must be very, very careful in order to survive here. We of the Underground don't know who our leaders are. That way, if we break under pressure, we can only betray a handful of our people.
SPOCK	This young lady is a Nazi, a hero of the Fatherland. We saw her being decorated.
DARAS	I'm an Ekosian fighting the terrible thing that's happened to my people. The decoration was for betraying my own father to the Party. It was my father's idea. You see, he used to be very close to the Fuhrer. Then he saw the changes and where they were leading. He turned against the Party. They imprisoned him. Melakon sentenced him to death.
KIRK	Melakon?
ABROM	The Deputy Fuhrer. He's taken over.
DARAS	My father denounced me, making it appear like I'd betrayed him. He gave me a weapon to continue the fight with.
KIRK	How could this have seemed right to John Gill?
ABROM	Who?
KIRK	John Gill, your Fuhrer. He's one of our people.
ABROM	And what is your people?
KIRK	I'm Captain James Kirk of the United Spaceship Enterprise. This is my first officer, Mister Spock. John Gill, your Fuhrer, was sent here by the Federation as a cultural observer.
DARAS	You mean that the Fuhrer is an alien?
SPOCK	That is correct.
DARAS	I grew up to admire him, later to hate and despise everything he stands for. But I always thought he was one of us. Now to hear that he's an alien sent here to destroy us
KIRK	That was not his mission, ever. He was sent here to observe, not to interfere. Something went wrong, and that's why we're here. To find out and to correct. We must see him.
ISAK	It's impossible. Even if this were another time, it still would be impossible. He sees no one. No one but Melakon. He's under maximum security.
KIRK	Maximum security. Is he so afraid?
ISAK	There are many of us, both Ekosians and younger Zeons, who would gladly risk our lives to kill him.
KIRK	I don't understand what's going on here. This goes against every principle that John Gill ever believed in. Our only chance is to see him, and quickly.
DARAS	He makes a speech tonight from the Chancellery. All the top Party officials will be there.
KIRK	Will you be there?
DARAS	Of course. As a symbol of the proper attitude toward the Fatherland.
SPOCK	As an honoured member of the Party, she could get us past the guards.
DARAS	Only the top, most trusted, officials will be allowed in. The country will watch on the viewscreens.
ISAK	I'm afraid it will be a formal declaration of war against Zeon. Their Final Solution.
KIRK	You must get us in there.
DARAS	It would be suicide.
ISAK	Well it's a risk living at all the way things are going. If the Captain believes he has a chance, I'm willing to commit suicide with him.
DARAS	You, a Zeon? You expect to get into the Chancellery?
ISAK	It's even more my fight than yours.
KIRK	Lights.
GUARD	You, what is your business here?
KIRK	Get me some lights on her.
GUARD	It's Party Secretary Daras.
DARAS	The Fuhrer's special documentary corps. Smile, Corporal.
KIRK	Excuse me.
SPOCK	Captain, I'm beginning to understand why you Earthmen enjoy gambling. No matter how carefully one computes the odds of success, there is still a certain exhilaration in the risk.
KIRK	Very good, Spock. We may make a human of you yet.
SPOCK	I hope not.
KIRK	Let's go.
KIRK	Lights. Thank you. Where does the Fuhrer enter?
DARAS	He doesn't. They watch him on the big screen. There, at the end of the room. He broadcasts from the booth for security.
KIRK	They've got the booth curtained off. Bring that light to the side of her face. Where's the entrance to the broadcast booth?
DARAS	There, at the end of the corridor. You're not going to try to get into the broadcast booth.
KIRK	We're going to try.
ISAK	Sir, is this light better here?
KIRK	Good.
ISAK	If you distract the guard long enough, I can get a machine gun. It's a small booth, I could shoot through the door.
KIRK	We're here to get John Gill, and alive, not for your personal satisfaction. Is that clear? Let's try down there.
KIRK	Lights, please. Gentlemen, this is for the record of the Fuhrer's Final Solution speech.
DARAS	We're documenting the men responsible for
KIRK	Smile, gentlemen. There will be more coverage later. Thank you very much. Let's get a moving shot down the hall.
ISAK	So, what have we accomplished? You should have let me shoot him.
SPOCK	Captain, it was John Gill, but he never moved. Never once looked up.
KIRK	Yes, well, that may be part of the plan, the semi-divine detachment.
SPOCK	Or a deep psychosis.
KIRK	It may be simpler than that. He may be drugged. We need McCoy. Is there a place, a room we can be alone for a few minutes? I'm going to send for help.
DARAS	Send for?
KIRK	It takes too long to explain. Any place will do.
ISAK	The cloakroom?
SPOCK	It may not have the range it had. In fact, it may not work at all.
KIRK	Think positively, Spock.
SPOCK	Spock to Enterprise. Spock to Enterprise. Come in, Enterprise.
UHURA	Enterprise. Lieutenant Uhura.
KIRK	Captain here. Put McCoy on.
UHURA	Yes, sir. Captain, we're not reading you well. You're nine points into the low-frequency band.
KIRK	We've having difficulty. Patch historical computer into uniform section. I want McCoy outfitted as a Gestapo doctor Nazi Germany, old Earth date 1944. Make him a colonel.
UHURA	Yes, sir.
ENEG	Search the building.
MCCOY	What have you got, Jim?
KIRK	We found John Gill. At least, we've seen him. He may be drugged, hypnotised, or psychotic. You'll have to make a determination. Hurry with that uniform.
KIRK	What is it?
DARAS	Isak just heard two security men. They picked up your broadcast, pin-pointed it within this building. They're starting to search.
SPOCK	If there's going to be a delay in transporting the doctor, I suggest we cancel our
KIRK	Kirk to Enterprise. What's happening up there?
UHURA	Doctor McCoy is having difficulty with that uniform, sir.
KIRK	Send him down naked if you have to. Kirk out.
DARAS	It's true. I only half-believed what you said.
MCCOY	Stupid computer made a mistake in the measurements. The right boot's too tight.
SPOCK	There is a logical way to proceed, Doctor. Point your toe, apply equal pressure to either side of the boot, and push. We have no time for emotionalism.
KIRK	This is Doctor McCoy, our Chief Medical Officer. Daras, secretary to the National Socialist Party.
MCCOY	How do you do? What in blazes is this?
DARAS	Chairman Eneg.
KIRK	The Colonel is drunk. He's had a little too much to drink.
ENEG	I see.
KIRK	Yes, he thought he would embarrass the Fuhrer.
SPOCK	Yes. A doctor should have more pride.
ENEG	You were right to conceal him. There's a spy in this building with a secret transmitter. We're conducting a search. Hail the Fuhrer.
ALL	Hail the Fuhrer.
SPOCK	Captain, I do not understand how he failed to recognise us.
KIRK	Nor do I, but luck is something you also fail to recognise, Mister Spock.
SPOCK	True. I shall reconsider.
DARAS	The Fuhrer's speech.
KIRK	Let's go.
ALL	Hail the Fuhrer! Hail the Fuhrer! Hail the Fuhrer! Hail the Fuhrer!
GILL	Ekosians. The job ahead is difficult. It requires courage and dedication. It requires faith. The Zeon colony has existed for nearly half a century.
KIRK	Watch his mouth.
GILL	If we fulfill our own greatness, that will all be ended. Working together
SPOCK	Captain, the speech follows no logical pattern.
KIRK	Random sentences strung together.
GILL	Will at times be difficult.
MCCOY	He looks drugged, Jim. Almost at a cataleptic state.
GILL	To reach our goal, And we will reach that goal.
MCCOY	I have to have a close look at him.
GILL	must be decisive. Every thought directed toward a goal. This planet can become a paradise, if we are willing to pay the price. As each cell in the body works with discipline and harmony for the good of the entire being
KIRK	Gentlemen, I want a picture of you two with the Hero of the Fatherland listening to the stirring Fuhrer's speech. Get that light over there, please. Get this light around here. Smile, gentlemen. Turn around, smile, and now.
KIRK	It's locked. Keys.
ALL	Hail the Fuhrer!
MELAKON	Hail the Fuhrer!
ALL	Hail the Fuhrer!
MELAKON	The Fuhrer has given us our orders, and we pledge him our lives in this sacred task. Death to Zeon!
ALL	Death to Zeon! Death to Zeon!
ALL	Death to Zeon! Death to Zeon!
MCCOY	Definitely drugged, almost comatose.
SPOCK	What drug?
MCCOY	I can't identify it without a medi-comp. Without knowing, an antidote would be dangerous.
KIRK	Is there anything you do?
MCCOY	I can give him a general stimulant, but it would be risky.
KIRK	Take the risk.
MELAKON	But despite our best efforts, they remain like a cancer, eating away at our state.
ISAK	There's no reaction. Whatever you gave him isn't working.
KIRK	Bones, increase the dosage.
MCCOY	I'm working in the dark. I could kill him.
DARAS	If they find us here, we'll all be killed.
MELAKON	Ten minutes ago, on our Fuhrer's orders, our troops began their historic mission.
MELAKON	In the cities, the eliminations have started. Within an hour, the Zeon blight will forever be removed from Ekos.
DARAS	It's begun. It's finally begun.
MCCOY	The stimulant's working.
MELAKON	I now announce the glorious final solution.
MCCOY	He's reaching a level of consciousness. It's almost like he's in a light sleep. Now, that's as much as I dare do.
MELAKON	Our entire solar system will forever be rid of the disease that was Zeon.
KIRK	Spock, try to get through to him with a mind probe. If you can't, Bones, you'll have to use a stronger stimulant, no matter what it does.
MELAKON	Our space fleet is on its way toward Zeon, both manned and unmanned weapons.
MELAKON	This is the time of destiny. Hail victory!
ALL	Hail victory! Hail victory! Hail victory!
ALL	 Hail victory!
DARAS	There's one chance left. If you'd use the weapons you have, you could destroy the fleet.
KIRK	That would mean the death of thousands of Ekosian spacemen.
ISAK	Many of my friends are aboard that ship, many of the Underground.
DARAS	Yes, but against those thousands are millions of innocent Zeon lives. You've got to choose the lesser of two evils.
KIRK	We could save Zeon, but what about Ekos?
SPOCK	Captain. I have created a condition in which Gill cannot initiate speech or any other action, but he can reply to questions.
KIRK	Well done, Spock. They've kept what's left of him as a figure head.
SPOCK	Quite correct. For the last few years, the real power has been Melakon.
KIRK	Gill. Gill, why did you abandon your mission? Why did you interfere with this culture?
GILL	Planet fragmented. Divided. Took lesson from Earth history.
KIRK	But why Nazi Germany? You studied history. You knew what the Nazis were.
GILL	Most efficient state Earth ever knew.
SPOCK	Quite true, Captain. That tiny country, beaten, bankrupt, defeated, rose in a few years to stand only one step away from global domination.
KIRK	But it was brutal, perverted, had to be destroyed at a terrible cost. Why that example?
SPOCK	Perhaps Gill felt that such a state, run benignly, could accomplish its efficiency without sadism.
KIRK	Why, Gill? Why?
GILL	Worked. At first it worked. Then Melakon began take over. Used the. Gave me the drug.
KIRK	Gill. Gill. Gill, can you hear me? You've got to tell those people what happened! You're the only one who can prevent the slaughter! Gill!
MCCOY	He's still alive, but the drug they use is too strong. If I give him another shot
KIRK	Bones, give him another shot!
MCCOY	I don't dare.
ISAK	Guards.
KIRK	We've run out of time, Bones. No, wait. Aim it at Spock. Spock, take off the helmet.
ISAK	For the second time in one day, Daras is a hero to the Fatherland.
KIRK	She captured a Zeon spy that was attempting to assassinate the Fuhrer.
ENEG	Guards.
ISAK	Yes, let us make an example of this traitor once and for all.
KIRK	We'll make a present of him to Melakon.
ISAK	Chairman Eneg, this spy must be taken to Melakon.
ENEG	Pass them on my responsibility.
ISAK	Eneg is one of us.
KIRK	Stay close to Spock. Stall for time. And hope.
MELAKON	What is this?
ISAK	A spy, Excellency.
DARAS	A rare prize. The Deputy Fuhrer can see this is no ordinary Zeon.
MELAKON	No, not a Zeon, definitely not.
KIRK	Professor Gill, can you hear me? You've got to speak. You've got to speak. This is our last chance. Gill?
DARAS	The Deputy Fuhrer's an authority on the genetics of racial purity. How would you classify this one?
MELAKON	Very difficult. Note the sinister eyes and the malformed ears. Definitely an inferior race.
KIRK	Professor. Professor! You've got to talk! You've got to tell them what happened. You've got to come out of it. Come on, Professor. Come on. Come on.
MELAKON	Note the low forehead, denoting stupidity. The dull look of a trapped animal. You may take him now for interrogation, but I want the body saved for the Cultural Museum. He'll make an interesting display.
GILL	People. People of Ekos.
MELAKON	Go to the booth. See to the Fuhrer at once. He's ill. Turn off that camera.
GILL	Hear me.
MELAKON	I suggest we leave and let our Fuhrer rest.
GILL	We were betrayed by a self-seeking adventurer who has led us all to the very brink of disaster. I order the immediate recall of the space fleet. This attack must stop. All units are to return to base. To Zeon I promise, this was not an aggression of Ekosian people.
GILL	Only one evil man. Melakon
GILL	Is a traitor to his own people and all that we stand for. To the Zeon people, I promise reparation and
ENEG	Wait, soldier. There's been enough killing. Now we'll start to live the way the Fuhrer meant us to live.
GILL	I was wrong. The non-interference Directive is the only way. We must stop the slaughter.
KIRK	You did that, Professor. You told them in time.
GILL	Even historians fail to learn from history. They repeat the same mistakes. Let the killing end. Let
SPOCK	Is he dead, Captain?
KIRK	Dead.
ISAK	For so long I've prayed for this. Now I'm sorry.
KIRK	So is he.
ISAK	You've given us all a new chance.
ENEG	Thank you, but go now. We must do the rest.
DARAS	Eneg and I will go on the air, offer a new way for our people. For all our people, both Zeons and Ekosians.
ENEG	It is time to stop the bloodshed, to bury our dead.
KIRK	Mister Spock, I think the planet is in good hands.
SPOCK	Indeed, Captain. With the union of two cultures, this system would make a fine addition to the Federation.
KIRK	Kirk to Enterprise.
UHURA	Enterprise here, Captain.
KIRK	Beam us aboard.
SPOCK	Captain, I never will understand humans. How could a man as brilliant, a mind as logical as John Gill's, have made such a fatal error?
KIRK	He drew the wrong conclusion from history. The problem with the Nazis wasn't simply that their leaders were evil, psychotic men. They were, but the main problem, I think, was the leader principle.
MCCOY	What he's saying, Spock, is that a man who holds that much power, even with the best intentions, just can't resist the urge to play God.
SPOCK	Thank you, Doctor. I was able to gather the meaning.
MCCOY	It also proves another Earth saying. Absolute power corrupts absolutely. Darn clever, these Earthmen, wouldn't you say?
SPOCK	Yes. Earthmen like Ramses, Alexander, Caesar, Napoleon, Hitler, Lee Kuan. Your whole Earth history is made up of men seeking absolute power.
MCCOY	Spock, you obviously don't understand
SPOCK	Obviously, Doctor, you fail to accept
KIRK	Gentlemen. Gentlemen, we've just been through one civil war. Let's not start another. Mister Chekov, take us out of orbit. Warp factor two, and hurry.
