character	line
KIRK	Captain's log, stardate 3192.1. The Enterprise is en route to star cluster NGC 321. Objective, to open diplomatic relations with the civilisations known to be there. We have sent a message to Eminiar Seven, principal planet of the star cluster, informing them of our friendly intentions. We are awaiting an answer.
KIRK	Nothing yet, Lieutenant?
UHURA	Nothing, Captain. Hailing frequencies are open.
FOX	Have you received an answer to your message yet, Captain?
KIRK	Nothing yet, Ambassador. We're awaiting a reply. Today's the first time we've had any evidence they've picked up our signal.
UHURA	Captain, message coming in from Eminiar Seven. Sir, it's code seven-ten.
KIRK	Are you sure?
UHURA	Positive. It repeats over and over.
FOX	Is that supposed to mean something?
KIRK	Code seven-ten means under no circumstances are we to approach that planet. No circumstances what so ever.
FOX	You will disregard that signal, Captain.
KIRK	Mister Fox, it is their planet.
FOX	Captain, in the past twenty years, thousands of lives have been lost in this quadrant. Lives that could have been saved if the Federation had a treaty port here. We mean to have that port and I'm here to get it.
KIRK	By disregarding code seven-ten, you might well involve us in an interplanetary war.
FOX	I'm quite prepared to take that risk.
KIRK	You are. I'm thinking about this ship, my crew.
FOX	I have my orders, Captain, and now you have yours. You will proceed on course. Achieve orbit status and just leave the rest to me. You're well aware that my mission gives me the power of command. I now exercise it. You will proceed on course. That's a direct order.
SPOCK	In view of code seven-ten, Captain, may I suggest
KIRK	Yes, Mister Spock. This is the Captain. Condition Yellow Alert. Phaser crews stand by. Deflector shields up. We're going in. Peacefully, I hope. But peacefully or not, we're going in.
KIRK	Captain's log, stardate 3192.5. Now in standard orbit around planet Eminiar Seven. My orders are clear. We must establish diplomatic relations at all cost. Preparing to beam down to planet surface.
SPOCK	We know very little about them. Their civilisation is advanced. They've had space flight for several centuries, but they've never ventured beyond their own solar system. When first contacted more than fifty years ago, Eminiar Seven was at war with its nearest neighbour.
KIRK	Anything else?
SPOCK	The Earth expedition making the report failed to return from its mission. The USS Valiant. Listed as missing in space.
FOX	Kirk, what's this about you going down alone?
KIRK	Not alone. I'm taking some security people with me.
FOX	It is my prerogative.
KIRK	I can't risk beaming you down there until I know what kind of reception you're going to receive. Your safety is my responsibility. Those are my orders, sir. Mister Spock.
SPOCK	Transporter room standing by, Captain.
KIRK	What co-ordinates?
SPOCK	We've selected a site which from the traffic seems to be near an official establishment.
KIRK	Final sensor readings?
SPOCK	No hostility directed toward us. No apparent notice taken of us at all, which seems strange. They did scan us when we assumed orbit. Obviously, they know we're here.
KIRK	Ship's defences?
SPOCK	Screens down, but all defensive details on general alert status, Captain.
KIRK	Good. Landing party will pick up phaser number one's from the arsenal. Keep them inconspicuous. Mister Scott.
SCOTT	Yes, sir.
KIRK	The ship is yours. Take care of her until I come back.
SCOTT	Aye, aye, sir. And have a bonny trip.
KIRK	We'll do our best. Let's go.
MEA	They will materialise there. Remember your instructions; They are to be treated correctly, nothing more.
KIRK	I'm Captain James T. Kirk of the starship Enterprise, representing the United Federation of Planets.
MEA	I know. I'm Mea 3. I congratulate you on your instrumentation. You've come directly to the Division of Control. If you'll follow me, please.
MEA	Captain, I wish
KIRK	Yes?
MEA	You were warned not to come here.
KIRK	I had orders to come here. Why did your people tell us to stay away?
MEA	It was for your own safety, Captain.
KIRK	I see no danger here.
MEA	The danger exists. Nevertheless, you are here. It would be morally incorrect to do less than extend our hospitality. Anan 7 and members of the High Council await you. If you will come this way, please.
KIRK	I'm Captain Kirk. This is my first officer, Mister Spock, Lieutenants Galloway, Osborne, Yeoman Tamula.
ANAN	Welcome to Eminiar Seven. Well, Captain, what can we do for you?
KIRK	My mission is to establish diplomatic relations between your people and mine.
ANAN	That is impossible.
KIRK	Would you mind telling me why?
ANAN	Because of the war.
KIRK	You're still at war?
ANAN	We have been at war for five hundred years.
KIRK	You conceal it very well. Mister Spock?
SPOCK	Sir, we have completely scanned your planet. We find it highly advanced, prosperous in a material sense, comfortable for your people, and peaceful in the extreme. Yet you say you are at war. There is no evidence of this.
ANAN	Casualties among our civilian population total from one to three million dead each year from direct enemy attack. That is one reason, Captain, why we told you to stay away. As long as your ship is orbiting our planet, it is in severe danger.
SPOCK	With whom are you at war?
ANAN	The third planet in our system, called Vendikar. Originally settled by our people and now a ruthless enemy. Highly advanced technologically.
ANAN	Please excuse me. Vendikar is attacking. Mea, care for our guests.
SPOCK	Strange.
KIRK	To say the least.
MEA	It will not last long.
KIRK	Don't you take shelter?
MEA	There is no shelter, Captain.
SPOCK	Are these attacks frequent?
MEA	Oh yes, and we will retaliate immediately.
MEA	Oh!
KIRK	What is it?
MEA	A hit right here in the city.
KIRK	Do you hear any explosions, Mister Spock?
SPOCK	None, Captain. Yeoman Tamula.
TAMULA	Sir?
SPOCK	Tricorder readings. Radiation. Disturbances of any kind.
TAMULA	Working, sir. No evidence.
KIRK	Mea, if this is an attack, may I ask what weapons the enemy is using?
MEA	Fusion bombs, materialised by the enemy over their targets.
KIRK	Kirk to Bridge. Scotty?
SCOTT	Scott here, Captain.
KIRK	Scanners operative on the planet's surface?
SCOTT	Of course, sir. As per orders.
KIRK	Anything unusual?
SCOTT	Nothing, sir. All quiet.
KIRK	Thank you. Kirk out.
SAR	Look, Anan.
ANAN	Yes, I see it. They were warned.
SAR	Just as it happened fifty years ago.
ANAN	Alert a security detachment. They may be needed.
ANAN	It's a vicious attack, extremely destructive. Fortunately, our defences are firming, but our casualties are high. Very high.
KIRK	Sir, I have been in contact with my ship, which has had this entire planet under surveillance. All during this so-called attack of yours, we have been monitoring you. There's been no attack, no explosions, no radiations, no disturbances whatsoever. If this is some sort of game you're playing
ANAN	This is no game, Captain. Half a million people have just been killed. Activate the attack units, Sar.
SAR	Yes, Councilman.
ANAN	Launch immediate counter attack.
SPOCK	Computers, Captain. They fight their war with computers. Totally.
ANAN	Yes, of course.
KIRK	Computer don't kill a half million people.
ANAN	Deaths have been registered. Of course they have twenty four hours to report.
KIRK	To report?
ANAN	To our disintegration machines. You must understand, Captain, we have been at war for five hundred years. Under ordinary conditions, no civilisation could withstand that. But we have reached a solution.
SPOCK	Then the attack by Vendikar was theoretical.
ANAN	Oh, no, quite real. An attack is mathematically launched. I lost my wife in the last attack. Our civilisation lives. The people die, but our culture goes on.
KIRK	You mean to tell me your people just walk into a disintegration machine when they're told to?
ANAN	We have a high consciousness of duty, Captain.
SPOCK	There is a certain scientific logic about it.
ANAN	I'm glad you approve.
SPOCK	I do not approve. I understand.
ANAN	Good. Then you will recall I warned you not to come here. You chose to ignore my warning. I'm sorry, but it's happened.
KIRK	What has happened?
ANAN	Once your ship was in orbit about our planet, it became a legitimate target. It has been classified destroyed by a tricobalt satellite explosion. All persons aboard your ship have twenty four hours to report to our disintegration machines. In order to ensure their co-operation, I have ordered you, Captain, and your party held in custody until they surrender. If possible, we shall spare your ship, Captain, but its passengers and crew are already dead.
KIRK	Captain's log, delayed. The Enterprise, in orbit about Eminiar Seven, has been declared a casualty of an incredible war fought by computers. I and my landing party, though apparently not included as casualties aboard the Enterprise, are confined on the planet's surface, awaiting what?
MEA	I have been sent to ask if you require anything.
KIRK	We require a great deal. I wish to speak to Anan Seven.
MEA	He's busy co-ordinating casualty lists.
KIRK	He'll have more casualty lists than he knows what to do with if he doesn't get in here and talk to me.
MEA	Don't you understand? Our duty
KIRK	Your duty doesn't include stepping into a disintegrator and disappearing.
MEA	I'm afraid mine does, Captain. I too have been declared a casualty. I must report to a disintegrator by noon tomorrow.
KIRK	Is that all it means to you? To report and die?
MEA	My life is as dear to me as yours is to you, Captain.
KIRK	Then how can you stand
MEA	Don't you see? If I refuse to report, and others refuse, then Vendikar would have no choice but to launch real weapons. We would have to do the same to defend ourselves. More than people would die then. A whole civilisation would be destroyed. Surely you can see that ours is a better way.
KIRK	No, I don't see that at all.
MEA	It's been our way for almost five hundred years. Is there anything I can bring you?
KIRK	Yes. Anan Seven.
MCCOY	I tell you, we should have heard something by now.
SCOTT	Aye, Doctor, that we should, but we haven't, and we cannot raise them. You know, if there'd been trouble, they should have at least managed to get word back to us.
MCCOY	We can't just sit here.
SCOTT	What would you suggest?
MCCOY	Me? I'm a doctor. If I were an officer of the line, I'd
SCOTT	Would you have me open fire?
MCCOY	Of course not.
UHURA	Mister Scott, message coming in from the Captain.
SCOTT	Scott here, Captain.
KIRK	Good news, Mister Scott. The Eminians have agreed to the establishment of full normal diplomatic relations.
SCOTT	Mister Fox'll be glad to hear about that.
KIRK	They've also extended an invitation to all personnel to come ashore, for shore leave. They've assured me that our people will have a wonderful time.
SCOTT	Er, Captain?
ANAN	Yes, Mister Scott?
SCOTT	All personnel?
ANAN	All personnel. We'll transport up trained Eminians to assume support positions. Those are my orders, Mister Scott.
SCOTT	Aye, aye, Captain. We'll start forming shore parties immediately. Scott out. Well now, what do you think of that?
MCCOY	I don't know.
SCOTT	Well, I do. Computer, last message received and recorded from Captain Kirk.
COMPUTER	In place.
SCOTT	Run it through analyser. Question. Is it or is it not the Captain's voice?
COMPUTER	Negative. A close copy.
SCOTT	A voice duplicator?
COMPUTER	Ninety eight percent probability.
SCOTT	Well, they've got them, Doctor, and now they're trying to get us.
KIRK	Are you sure you can do it, Mister Spock?
SPOCK	Limited telepathic abilities are inherent in Vulcanians, Captain. It may work. It may not.
KIRK	Do your best.
KIRK	Thank you, Mister Spock.
SPOCK	My pleasure, Captain.
TAMULA	What do we do now, Captain?
KIRK	We get our communicators back and try and contact the ship. Mister Spock, we'll need more weapons.
SPOCK	I understand.
KIRK	We'll try to take it easy, but if we're forced to kill
SPOCK	An entrance, Captain, but no exit. They go in, but they do not come out.
KIRK	A disintegration machine.
SPOCK	So I would assume.
KIRK	Mea. What do you think you're doing?
MEA	I'm going
KIRK	You're not going in there.
MEA	But I must.
KIRK	No you're not.
MEA	Please. All right, don't worry about me.
KIRK	Mister Spock, that guard. I'll cover you.
SPOCK	Sir, there's a multi-legged creature crawling on your shoulder.
KIRK	All right, you people, clear out of the way.
MEA	What are you doing?
KIRK	Throwing a monkey wrench into the machinery.
MEA	You can't do this.
KIRK	I've done it. Come on, let's get out of here.
SECURITY	The Federation prisoners have attacked their guard and escaped. They are armed. Disintegration station number twelve destroyed, Councilman, apparently by disruptor fire.
ANAN	All security personnel, Federation prisoners have escaped. They are to be found. They are armed. If they resist, do what is necessary. Planetary disruptor banks, calculate orbit of star cruiser now circling. Stand by to fire. Full power.
SECURITY	Councilman, planetary disruptor banks locked onto target. Standing by.
ANAN	In ten seconds, open fire. Destroy the star cruiser. Those are the orders of the Council.
SCOTT	Ship's log, stardate 3193.0. Chief Engineer Scott recording. The Captain and First Officer are overdue and missing on the surface of Eminiar Seven. I have taken standard precautionary measures while we continue our attempts to locate them.
DEPAUL	All stations reporting. Deflector screens rigged at full power. Phaser crews ready. Sensors reading zero. Correction. Mister Scott.
SCOTT	Yes, Mister DePaul?
DEPAUL	Sensor readings just shot off the scale.
SCOTT	Well, now. They're taking pot shots at us. Holding, Mister DePaul?
DEPAUL	Screens firm, sir. Extremely powerful sonic vibrations. Decibels eighteen to the twelfth power. If those screens weren't up, we'd be totally disrupted by now.
MCCOY	Well, I guess that answers our questions, Mister Scott. They're not very friendly, are they?
SCOTT	Aye, but what about our Captain and the landing party down there somewhere?
MCCOY	We get them out.
SCOTT	If they're alive, and if we can find them. That's a big planet.
MCCOY	Not too big for the Enterprise to handle if it has to.
SCOTT	We can't fire full phasers with our screens up, and We can't lower our screens with their disruptors on us. Of course I could treat them to a few dozen photon torpedoes.
FOX	You'll do no such thing, Mister Scott.
SCOTT	Mister Fox, we're under attack. They're trying to knock us down.
FOX	You have taken defensive measures.
SCOTT	Of course, but
FOX	There are no buts. Obviously it's a misunderstanding, and one of my jobs is to clear up misunderstandings.
MCCOY	They're holding our Captain.
FOX	We have no proof of that.
SCOTT	I'm responsible for the safety of this ship.
FOX	And I'm responsible for the success of this mission, and that's more important than this ship. Is that clear? We came here to establish diplomatic relations with these people.
SCOTT	But they're the ones who're looking for a fight, Mister Fox.
FOX	This is a diplomatic matter. If you check your regulations, you'll find that my orders get priority. I'll try to make contact with the planetary officials. Lieutenant, open up a channel and keep it open. Tell them to expect a priority one message from me. There will be no punitive measures, gentlemen. Those are my orders.
SCOTT	Diplomats. The best diplomat I know is a fully activated phaser bank.
TAMULA	Why did we come back here, Captain?
KIRK	The last place they'll look for us is the place we escaped from. Cover the door.
MEA	Captain, you've got to let me go. My time is almost up.
KIRK	Are you that anxious to die?
MEA	You don't understand.
KIRK	Mister Spock, how did that little raid work out?
SPOCK	We captured four of their disrupter-type weapons, two complete outfits of male clothing, and perhaps most important of all, one of their communication devices.
KIRK	Will it reach the ship?
SPOCK	Not at this time. Its range is restricted in comparison with ours. I may be able to alter its components, but it will take time.
KIRK	Work on it. We've got to contact the ship. Mea, I want you to give me a complete layout of this building complex. How do I get to the War Room?
MEA	No!
KIRK	Now listen to me. I'm trying to help you. To save your life and the lives of millions like you. If you help me, maybe I can do it. If you don't, you'll die, we'll die, and the killing will go on. Or are you that fond of the war?
MEA	What are you going to do?
KIRK	We're going to try and stop the killing. We're trying to help. Believe me.
MEA	I believe you, but
KIRK	Tell me what I want to know. Please.
ANAN	Time is running out. We have been unable to destroy the Earth ship. One of our disintegration chambers has been eliminated and we have already fallen far behind in our quota. This is a grave crisis and I am at a loss to know how to proceed.
SAR	The central channel, Anan. The Earth ambassador's calling with an urgent message.
ANAN	What is the great immorality, open honesty or a deception which may save our lives? Put me through to the Earth Ambassador.
UHURA	A channel is open, Mister Ambassador. You will be speaking to Anan Seven, head of the High Council of the Eminian Union.
FOX	Mister Anan, this is Robert Fox
FOX	Special Ambassador for the United Federation of Planets.
ANAN	A great honour, Mister Ambassador.
FOX	We have approached you openly
FOX	With the intent of establishing formal and friendly relations between our peoples, but now,
FOX	For some reason, you have attacked us, and apparently you're holding several special representatives of our Federation.
ANAN	A mistake, Mister Ambassador. We are at war.
ANAN	An error in our sensors indicated that your ship was about to attack us.
ANAN	I'm giving orders that our attack be stopped.
ANAN	Now, as to your representatives, you have my sacred word as an Eminian that they are alive and well.
FOX	Thank you. I thought perhaps it was all a mistake.
DEPAUL	Mister Scott, disruptor beams are no longer hitting us.
SCOTT	Maintain status, Mister DePaul.
ANAN	We are most anxious to establish relations with you, Mister Fox.
ANAN	We will make arrangements to receive you. The minute their screens are down, open fire.
SAR	Yes, Councilman.
ANAN	I apologise deeply for the misunderstanding. These are trying times for us, you understand.
FOX	I understand. Mister Anan, I presume that you have our ship's Captain on hand when I beam down.
ANAN	He will be there, sir.
ANAN	I give you my word.
FOX	I'm sure that from this day forward, your planet and our Federation will attain the deepest friendship. I look forward to seeing you.
FOX	Diplomacy, gentlemen, should be a job left to diplomats. You will, of course, immediately resume a peaceful status.
SCOTT	No, sir, I will not.
FOX	What did you say?
SCOTT	I'll not lower the screens, not until the Captain tells me to.
FOX	You are taking orders from me. You will lower the screens as a sign of good faith. My authority.
SCOTT	I know about your authority, but the screens stay up.
MCCOY	Mister Fox, they faked a message from the Captain, they've launched an attack against our ship. Now you want us to trust them openly?
FOX	I want you and expect you to obey my lawful orders.
SCOTT	No, sir. I won't lower the screens.
FOX	Your refusal to comply with my orders has endangered the entire success of this mission. I can have you sent to a penal colony for this.
SCOTT	That you can, sir, but I won't lower the screens.
FOX	Your name will figure prominently in my report to the Federation Central.
MCCOY	Well, Scotty, now you've done it.
SCOTT	Aye. The haggis is in the fire for sure, but I'll not lower my defences on the word of that mealy-mouthed gentleman down below. Not until I know what happened to the Captain.
ANAN	Won't you join me in a drink, Captain? You'll find our trova most interesting.
KIRK	I didn't come to drink.
ANAN	I assume that is what you used to destroy disintegration chamber number twelve.
KIRK	A very efficient weapon. I'm not afraid of using it.
ANAN	My first impression was correct. You are a barbarian.
KIRK	I am?
ANAN	Don't sound so incredulous, Captain. Of course you are. We all are. A killer first, a builder second. A hunter, a warrior, and let's be honest, a murderer. That is our joint heritage, is it not?
KIRK	We're less cold-blooded about it than you are.
ANAN	What do you want, Captain?
KIRK	I want to contact my ship. Where are my communicators?
ANAN	In a safe place.
KIRK	You take a lot of chances, Councilman.
ANAN	You're worried about your ship, Captain. I'm trying to save a world.
KIRK	If I were you, I'd think about saving my life.
ANAN	Won't you have a drink, Captain?
ANAN	And then we can discuss our differences.
KIRK	I'm not interested in discussing our differences. You don't seem to realise the risk you're taking. We don't make war with computers and herd the casualties into suicide stations. We make the real thing, Councilman. I could destroy this planet.
ANAN	Why do you think I don't let you talk to your ship ?
KIRK	I don't need the ship for that.
ANAN	You mean, all by yourself with a disruptor, you can destroy this planet?
KIRK	That's exactly what I mean.
ANAN	I had no idea you were so formidable.
KIRK	You seem to think I'm joking. Where are the communicators?
ANAN	If I told you, Captain, would you walk right out and get them?
KIRK	Something like that.
ANAN	Very well, Captain. They're in the War Room. Go left down the corridor, left again. They are unguarded.
ANAN	Is he alive? Pity. Man like that would have preferred to die fighting. Take him to the Council Room.
ANAN	Ambassador Fox?
FOX	I am Robert Fox. Have I the honour of addressing Anan Seven?
ANAN	Welcome to Eminiar, Mister Ambassador.
ANAN	Mister Ambassador, I am truly sorry for what must happen.
FOX	I beg your pardon?
ANAN	You and your party have been declared war casualties. You will be taken immediately to one of our casualty stations so that your deaths may be recorded.
FOX	You mean we are to be killed?
ANAN	That is correct, Mister Ambassador. I regret it very much, but there is nothing I can do about it.
SPOCK	Spock to Enterprise, come in.
UHURA	Mister Scott, it's Mister Spock.
SCOTT	Scotty here, Mister Spock. Go ahead.
SPOCK	Is the ship all right?
SCOTT	We've been through a bit, but we're all right now. How about the Captain and you?
SPOCK	The Captain is overdue. We've suffered no casualties among us. This is important. Under no circumstances shall any one beam down from the Enterprise. They'd be killed the moment they arrived.
SCOTT	That ties it. That popinjay Fox went down a couple minutes ago.
SPOCK	The Ambassador?
SCOTT	I knew it had a rotten ring to it.
SPOCK	Orbit out to maximum phaser range and stand by for further orders. Spock out.
TAMULA	What are you going to do, Mister Spock?
SPOCK	Find the Ambassador and the Captain. Yeoman Tamula, you stay here and prevent this young lady from immolating herself. Knock her down if necessary. This is a killing situation. Do what you must to protect yourself. Clear?
TAMULA	Yes, sir.
FOX	What are you doing? I'm a representative of the United Federation of Planets! A special representative!
GUARD	Get in line.
FOX	Spock!
SPOCK	Please, Mister Fox. Ladies and gentlemen, please move quickly away from the chamber or you may be injured.
FOX	What are you doing, Mister Spock?
SPOCK	Practicing a peculiar variety of diplomacy, sir.
SPOCK	I'll take you to a place of comparative safety, then I must find the Captain.
FOX	They have him. The guards told us. They took him to the Council Room under heavy guard.
SPOCK	By now, Mister Ambassador, I'm sure you realise that normal diplomatic procedures are ineffective here.
FOX	I've never been a soldier, Mister Spock, but I learn very quickly.
SPOCK	Very well, sir. We need all the help we can get.
ANAN	Captain, surely you can see the position we are in. If your people do not report to our disintegration chambers, it is a violation of an agreement that dates back five hundred years.
KIRK	My people are not responsible for your agreements.
ANAN	You will be responsible for an escalation that will destroy everything. Millions of people horribly killed. Complete destruction of our culture here and yes, the culture on Vendikar. Disaster, disease, starvation, horrible, lingering death, pain and anguish!
KIRK	That seems to frighten you.
ANAN	It would frighten any sane man.
KIRK	Yes. You're quite right.
ANAN	Don't you understand, Captain? We have done away with all that. Now you are threatening to bring it down on us again. Are those five hundred people of yours more important than the hundreds of millions of innocent people on Eminiar and Vendikar? What kind of monster are you?
KIRK	I'm a barbarian. You said it yourself.
ANAN	I had hoped I'd spoken only figuratively.
KIRK	Oh, no. You were quite accurate. I plan to prove it to you. ANAN: Open a channel to the Enterprise. You give me no choice, Captain. We are not bandits, but you force us to act as bandits.
SCOTT	This is the USS Enterprise.
KIRK	Scotty, General Order Twenty Four. Two hours! In two hours!
ANAN	Enterprise, this is Anan Seven, First Councilman of the High Council of Eminiar.
ANAN	We hold your Captain, his party, your Ambassador and his party prisoners.
ANAN	Unless you immediately start transportation of all personnel aboard your ship to the surface, the hostages will be killed. You have thirty minutes. I mean it, Captain.
KIRK	All that it means is that I won't be around for the destruction. You heard me give General Order Twenty Four. That means in two hours the Enterprise will destroy Eminiar Seven.
ANAN	Planetary defence System, open fire on the Enterprise!
SECURITY	I'm sorry, Councilman. The target has moved out of range.
ANAN	You wouldn't do this. Hundreds of millions of people.
KIRK	I didn't start it, Councilman, but I'm liable to finish it.
SAR	Councilman, I received a message from Vendikar. Our time is nearly up. Our quota is short by several thousand. They accuse us of reneging on the treaty.
ANAN	You see? It's started.
KIRK	You're wrong. It hasn't begun.
SECURITY	Councilman, Disintegrator station eleven has been destroyed. Guard positions in tunnels eight and ten fail to answer. Earth party reported seen in corridor 4A.
KIRK	You have less than two hours, Councilman.
ANAN	What I want or don't want has nothing to do with it. Escalation is automatic. You can stop it!
KIRK	Stop it? I'm counting on it.
SCOTT	Open a channel, Lieutenant. This is the commander of the USS Enterprise.
SCOTT	All cities and installations on Eminiar Seven have been located, identified, and fed into our fire-control system. In one hour and forty five minutes
SCOTT	The entire inhabited surface of your planet will be destroyed.
SCOTT	You have that long to surrender your hostages.
ANAN	What can I do? Somebody, please tell me.
KIRK	Hold it! Over there. You, over there. Move, move, move.
KIRK	Now we'll talk.
SPOCK	I had assumed you needed help. I see I'm in error.
KIRK	No. I need the help. In there, Mister Spock.
KIRK	Kirk to Enterprise. Come in, Scotty.
SCOTT	Aye, Captain, are you all right?
KIRK	Everything's secure here. Maintain position. If everything goes according to plan, you can beam us up in ten minutes. If you don't hear from us, carry out General Order Twenty Four on schedule.
SCOTT	Aye, aye, Captain. Is there anything else we can do?
KIRK	Cross your fingers. Kirk out. Death, destruction, disease, horror. That's what war is all about, Anan. That's what makes it a thing to be avoided. You've made it neat and painless. So neat and painless, you've had no reason to stop it. And you've had it for five hundred years. Since it seems to be the only way I can save my crew and my ship, I'm going to end it for you, one way or another. Mister Ambassador.
FOX	Yes, Captain.
KIRK	Would you mind taking these people out into the corridor and holding them there.
FOX	Gentlemen, if you please.
KIRK	You. Come with me. Mister Osborne.
KIRK	Our communicators, weapons.
KIRK	All right, Mister Spock. SPOCK: These are the attack computers, Captain. That one's defence, that one computes the casualties. They're all tied in with a subspace transmission unit, which keeps them in constant contact with their Vendikan counterparts.
KIRK	Yes, go on.
SPOCK	At the moment contact is broken, it abrogates the agreement between the two warring parties.
SAR	What are you going to do?
SPOCK	This one's the key. The circuit is now locked. Destroy this one, and they'll all go.
KIRK	Good. Get him out of here.
SAR	Now wait a minute. Please, please!
KIRK	Let's go.
KIRK	Against the wall!
ANAN	You realise what you have done?
KIRK	Yes, I do. I've given you back the horrors of war. The Vendikans now assume that you've broken your agreement and that you're preparing to wage real war with real weapons. They'll want do the same. Only the next attack they launch will do a lot more than count up numbers in a computer. They'll destroy cities, devastate your planet. You of course will want to retaliate. If I were you, I'd start making bombs. Yes, Councilman, you have a real war on your hands. You can either wage it with real weapons, or you might consider an alternative. Put an end to it. Make peace.
ANAN	There can be no peace. Don't you see? We've admitted it to ourselves. We're a killer species. It's instinctive. It's the same with you. Your General Order Twenty Four.
KIRK	All right. It's instinctive. But the instinct can be fought. We're human beings with the blood of a million savage years on our hands, but we can stop it. We can admit that we're killers, but we're not going to kill today. That's all it takes. Knowing that we won't kill today. Contact Vendikar. I think you'll find that they're just as terrified, appalled, horrified as you are, that they'll do anything to avoid the alternative I've given you. Peace or utter destruction. It's up to you.
FOX	As a third party interested only in peace and the establishment of normal relations, I should be glad to offer my services as negotiator between you and Vendikar. I've had some small experiences in such matters.
ANAN	There may be a chance. We have a direct channel with Vendikar's High Council. It hasn't been used in centuries.
FOX	Then it's long overdue. Shall we go?
SPOCK	There's a chance it may work, Captain.
KIRK	Kirk to Enterprise. Scotty?
SCOTT	Scott here, Captain.
KIRK	Cancel implementation of General Order Twenty Four. Alert transporter room. We're ready to beam up.
KIRK	Lay in a course for Argona Two, Navigator. Mister Scott.
SCOTT	Space details set, Captain.
UHURA	Message from Eminiar Seven, Captain. Ambassador Fox reports negotiations underway with Vendikar. Outlook hopeful.
KIRK	Good.
SPOCK	Captain, you took a big chance.
KIRK	Did I, Mister Spock? They've been killing three million people a year. It had been going on for five hundred years. An actual attack wouldn't have killed any more people than one of their computer attacks, but it would have ended their ability to make war. The fighting would have been over permanently.
MCCOY	But you didn't know that it would work.
KIRK	No. It was a calculated risk. Still, the Eminians keep a very orderly society, and actual war is a very messy business. A very, very messy business. I had a feeling that they would do anything to avoid it, even talk peace.
SPOCK	A feeling is not much to go on.
KIRK	Sometimes a feeling, Mister Spock, is all we humans have to go on.
SPOCK	Captain, you almost make me believe in luck.
KIRK	Why, Mister Spock, you almost make me believe in miracles.
