character	line
CAROLYN	Here's the report on Pollux Five, Captain. This entire system has been almost the same. A strange lack of intelligent life on the planets. It bugs the percentages.
KIRK	Bugs the? Well, carry out the standard procedures on Pollux Four.
CAROLYN	Aye, sir.
MCCOY	Lieutenant, you look a bit tired this morning.
CAROLYN	Well, I was up all night working on this report, sir.
SCOTT	Well in that case, there's nothing like a wee bit of coffee to get you back in shape. Join me, Carolyn?
CAROLYN	All right, Scotty. Just let me give this to Mister Spock.
KIRK	Bones, could you get that excited over a cup of coffee?
MCCOY	Even from here I can tell his pulse rate's up.
SCOTT	Gentlemen. Come along, my dear.
MCCOY	I'm not sure I like that, Jim.
KIRK	Why, Bones? Scotty's a good man.
MCCOY	And he thinks he's the right man for her, but I'm not sure she thinks he's the right man. On the other hand, she's a woman. All woman. One day she'll find the right man and off she'll go, out of the service.
KIRK	I like to think of it not so much losing an officer as gaining
SCOTT	Come along.
KIRK	Actually, I'm losing an officer.
CHEKOV	Entering standard orbit around Pollux Four, sir.
KIRK	Cartographic Detail, stand by.
UHURA	Standing by, sir.
KIRK	Preliminary reports, Mister Spock.
SPOCK	Pollux Four. Class M type planet, oxygen and nitrogen atmosphere. Sensors indicate no life forms. Approximate age four billion years. Judged no reason for contact. In all respects, quite ordinary, Captain.
KIRK	Cartographic Sections, implement standard orders.
UHURA	All cartographic standards full automatic.
SULU	Captain?
MCCOY	What in the name of?
KIRK	Analysis, Mister Spock.
SPOCK	Momentarily.
CHEKOV	Am I seeing things?
SULU	Not unless I am, too. Captain, that thing's a giant hand.
KIRK	What is it, Mister Spock? Is it a hand?
SPOCK	Negative, Captain. Not living tissue.
KIRK	A trick, then? A projection?
SPOCK	Not a projection, sir. A field of energy.
KIRK	Hard about.
SULU	Hard about. We can't seem to get away from it.
UHURA	It's almost as if it means to grab us.
KIRK	Reverse all engines.
SULU	All engines reverse.
SULU	We're dead still, Captain. Helm doesn't answer. We can't move.
KIRK	Captain's log, stardate 3468.1. While approaching Pollux Four, a planet in the Beta Geminorum system, the Enterprise has been stopped in space by an unknown force of some kind.
KIRK	Lieutenant, relay our position and circumstances to Starbase Twelve immediately.
UHURA	Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK	Mister Sulu try rocking the ship. Full impulse power forward and back.
SULU	Aye, aye, sir.
UHURA	Damage report coming in, Captain. Situation under control. Minor damage, stations three, seven, and nineteen.
MCCOY	Sickbay reports five minor injuries, all being treated.
KIRK	Thank you. Mister Sulu?
SULU	Applying thrust, sir. No results, Captain. We're stuck tight.
KIRK	Mister Spock. Status.
SPOCK	The ship is almost completely encircled by the field. It resembles a conventional force field but on unusual wavelengths. Despite its appearance, that of a human appendage, it is definitely not living tissue. It is energy.
KIRK	Thank you. Mister Sulu. Our forward tractor beams, adjust to repel.
SULU	Aye, aye, sir. Standing by.
KIRK	Activate.
SULU	Ineffective, Captain. There doesn't seem to be anything to push against.
SPOCK	Captain, a most curious development on scanner five seven.
KIRK	Let's all take a look at it, Mister Spock.
SPOCK	Screen on, Captain.
UHURA	Activity on hailing channel three, sir.
KIRK	Put it on audio, Lieutenant.
APOLLO	The eons have passed and what has been written has come about. You are most welcome, my beloved children. Your places await you.
KIRK	Response frequencies, Lieutenant.
UHURA	Calculated. Channel open, sir.
APOLLO	You have left your plains and valleys and made this bold venture. So it was in the beginning. You have made me proud. Now you can rest.
KIRK	This is Captain James T. Kirk, commanding the USS Enterprise. Please identify yourself.
APOLLO	We shall remember together. We shall drink the sacramental wine. There shall be the music of the pipes. The long wait has ended.
KIRK	Are you responsible for stopping the ship?
APOLLO	Yes. I caused the wind to withdraw from your sails.
KIRK	Give it back, then we'll talk.
APOLLO	It has been five thousand years. Have you learned no patience in that time?
KIRK	I don't know who or what you are, but I must warn you we have the power to defend ourselves. If you value your safety, release this ship.
APOLLO	You have the same fire. How like your fathers you are. Agamemnon, Hector, Odysseus.
KIRK	Never mind the history lesson. Release the ship!
APOLLO	You will obey me, lest I close my hand thus.
SCOTT	External pressure building up, Captain. Eight hundred GSC and climbing.
KIRK	Compensate.
SCOTT	One thousand GSC and climbing. Becoming critical, Captain. We can't handle it.
KIRK	All right! Whatever you're doing, turn it off! You win!
SCOTT	Pressure is gone, Captain. Space normal on hull.
APOLLO	hat was your first lesson. Remember it. Captain Kirk, I invite you and your officers to join me. But do not bring that one, the one with the pointed ears. He is much like Pan, and Pan always bored me. No sad faces. This is a time to rejoice, not to fear. You are returning home. Let your hearts prepare to sing.
KIRK	Let's go, Bones. You in good voice?
MCCOY	Sure it's wise, Jim?
KIRK	If we don't accept his invitation, we'll have a crushed eggshell where this ship used to be.
SPOCK	Verbose, isn't he?
KIRK	Insulted, Spock?
SPOCK	Insults are effective only where emotion is present.
KIRK	Good. We'll tackle him together. We already know the questions. You're the best man to find the answers.
KIRK	Tricorders.
CAROLYN	What am I doing down here, Doctor?
MCCOY	Well, you're the A and A officer, aren't you? Archaeology, anthropology, ancient civilisations.
CAROLYN	Correct.
MCCOY	We're going to need help in all those areas.
KIRK	Come on.
APOLLO	My children, long have I waited for this moment. The memories you bring of your lush and beautiful Earth, the green fields and blue skies, the simple shepherds and their flocks.
KIRK	You know of Earth? You've been there?
APOLLO	Once I stretched out my hand, and Earth trembled. And I breathed upon it, and spring returned.
KIRK	You mentioned Agamemnon, Hector, Odysseus. How do you know about them?
APOLLO	Search your most distant memories, those of the thousands of years past, and I am there. Your fathers knew me, and your father's fathers. I am Apollo.
CHEKOV	And I am the tsar of all the Russias.
KIRK	Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV	I'm sorry, Captain. I never met a god before.
KIRK	And you haven't yet. Readings, Doctor.
MCCOY	Simple humanoid, Captain.
KIRK	Evidently not so simple.
APOLLO	Earth, mother of the most beautiful of women in the universe. That at least has not changed. I am pleased. Yes, my children. Zeus, Athena, Aphrodite, Artemis. A gallant band of travellers. We knew your Earth well, five thousand of your years ago.
KIRK	All right. We're here at your invitation. Would you mind telling us what you want without all the Olympian generalities?
APOLLO	You will not leave this place.
KIRK	Transporter room.
APOLLO	Your transportation device no longer functions.
KIRK	Enterprise, come in.
APOLLO	I will not permit that device to work, either, Captain.
KIRK	What is it you want?
APOLLO	You will worship me, as your fathers did before you.
KIRK	If you want to play god and call yourself Apollo, that's your business, but you're no god to us, Mister.
APOLLO	I said you would worship me.
KIRK	And you've got a lot to learn!
APOLLO	And so have you! Let the lesson begin! Welcome to Olympus, Captain Kirk.
UHURA	Mister Spock, I can't contact the landing party. All frequencies are jammed.
SPOCK	Try to break through it, Lieutenant.
UHURA	Aye, sir.
KYLE	Transporter and communications?
SPOCK	Very efficient. Mister Sulu, rig all transmission circuits for maximum power generation. Compute for reversal of polarity of the field around the ship.
SULU	Working, sir.
SPOCK	Lieutenant Kyle, I want a complete sensor scan of the planet.
KYLE	Aye sir.
SPOCK	Locate all the lifeforms. I want to know what's going on down there.
MCCOY	To coin a phrase, fascinating.
KIRK	Analysis. Lieutenant Palamas, what do you know about Apollo?
CAROLYN	Apollo, twin brother of Artemis, son of the god Zeus and Leto, a mortal. He was the god of light and purity. He was skilled in the bow and lyre.
KIRK	And this thing?
CAROLYN	Obviously he has some knowledge of Earth. His classical references and the appearance of all this.
KIRK	I think the appearance of this is for our benefit. Bones?
MCCOY	I can't say much till I check our these readings. He looks human, but of course that doesn't mean a thing.
CHEKOV	Whatever he is, he seems to control a remarkable technology.
SCOTT	Power is what he controls. You can't do tricks like that without energy.
KIRK	Fine, but what power, and where is it? Scout around with your tricorders. Find the source of that power. Bones.
MCCOY	Yes?
KIRK	Bones, I wonder if five thousand years ago
MCCOY	You have a theory?
KIRK	I have an idea. What if he is really Apollo?
MCCOY	What?
CAROLYN	Captain.
APOLLO	I want from you that which is rightfully mine. Your loyalty, your tribute, and your worship.
MCCOY	May I ask what you offer in exchange for this worship?
APOLLO	Life in paradise. As simple and as pleasureful as it was those thousands of years ago on that beautiful planet so far away.
KIRK	Apollo, we're willing to talk, but you'll find we don't bow to every creature who happens to have a bag of tricks.
APOLLO	Agamemnon was one such as you, and Hercules. Pride and arrogance. They defied me until they felt my wrath.
SCOTT	I would like to point out that we are quite capable of some wrath ourselves.
KIRK	I have four hundred and thirty people on that ship up there.
APOLLO	No, you do not, Captain. They are mine. To save, to cherish, or to destroy at my will.
CAROLYN	But why? What you've said so far makes no sense at all.
APOLLO	How like Aphrodite and Athena. The beauty, grace. And you seem wise for a woman. What is your name?
CAROLYN	Lieutenant Palamas.
APOLLO	I mean your name.
CAROLYN	Carolyn.
APOLLO	Carolyn. Yes. You are beautiful. You would do Aphrodite credit. I will tell you a thousand tales, stories of courage and love. You will know what it is to be a goddess.
SCOTT	Leave her alone.
APOLLO	You protest? You risk much.
SCOTT	And so do you.
KIRK	Scotty. Very impressive. How'd you do it?
APOLLO	I've grown weary of discussion and argument.
CHEKOV	Captain, the phasers. All the working parts are fused.
APOLLO	None of your toys will function. Yes. You are a beauty. But like Artemis, the bow arm should be bare.
CAROLYN	Oh, it's beautiful.
APOLLO	Yes. Come.
SCOTT	She's not going with you.
APOLLO	He shall learn the discipline of the temple. So shall you all. Come.
CAROLYN	It's all right, Captain. I'll go.
APOLLO	Without fear. She is fit indeed.
KIRK	Bones, how is he?
MCCOY	Stunned but coming around. I'm not sure it's wise to let her go off like that.
KIRK	He would have been rather difficult to stop.
MCCOY	You saw how capricious he is. Benevolent one minute, angry the next. One more wrong move from her and he could kill her.
KIRK	Mister Chekov, I think you'd better continue your investigation.
CHEKOV	Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK	How do you feel, Scotty?
SCOTT	I am tingling all over. Did he take her with him?
KIRK	It would seem so.
SCOTT	Captain, we've got to stop him. He wants her. The way he looks at her.
KIRK	Mister Scott, I understand your concern over her, but she volunteered to go with him, hopefully to find out more about him. She's doing her job. I think it's about time you started doing yours. We've got to find out the source of his power. You've got a tricorder. Use it if you're able to.
SCOTT	I'm able, sir.
KIRK	And one more thing. I want no more unauthorised action against Apollo or whatever he is. That's an order!
SCOTT	Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK	Besides, you stiff-necked thistle head, you could have gotten yourself killed.
SCOTT	Aye.
MCCOY	Scotty doesn't believe in gods.
KIRK	Apollo's no god. But he could have been taken for one, though, once. Say five thousand years ago, a highly sophisticated group of space travellers landed on Earth around the Mediterranean.
MCCOY	Yes. To the simple shepherds and tribesmen of early Greece, creatures like that would have been gods.
KIRK	Especially if they had the power to alter their form at will and command great energy. In fact, they couldn't have been taken for anything else.
SPOCK	Ready to reverse polarity, Mister Sulu?
SULU	Computed and standing by to generate, sir.
SPOCK	Activate all units.
SULU	No good, Mister Spock. We didn't even faze it. We're still locked tight.
SPOCK	Cut power, Mister Sulu. Lieutenant, we must restore communications with the landing party.
UHURA	I'm working, sir, but I can't do anything with this.
SPOCK	Oh?
UHURA	I might be able to rig up a subspace bypass circuit.
SPOCK	Good. Do so. Sensor report, Mister Kyle.
KYLE	I've located the landing party, but one of them seems separated from the other four.
SPOCK	And Apollo?
KIRK	I've just picked up readings for our own people, sir.
SULU	Mister Spock, here's something. There seems to be a radiated energy pulsation coming from the planet. I don't know what it is, sir.
SPOCK	Origin?
SULU	I can't seem to pinpoint it.
SPOCK	I would suggest, Mister Sulu, if you cannot find out where the power source is, you should find out where it is not. A simple process of elimination.
SULU	The whole planet, sir? Yes, sir. The whole planet.
CAROLYN	Oh, it's lovely.
APOLLO	I've known other women. Daphne, Cassandra, but none more beautiful than you. Are you frightened of me?
CAROLYN	Frightened? No, I don't think so. Of course, a girl doesn't go walking with a
APOLLO	A god?
CAROLYN	All right, a god every day. What happened to the others? Artemis, Hera?
APOLLO	They returned to the cosmos on the wings of the wind.
CAROLYN	You mean they died?
APOLLO	No, not as you understand it. We're immortal, we gods. But the Earth changed. Your fathers changed. They turned away until we were only memories. A god cannot survive as a memory. We need love, admiration, worship, as you need food.
CAROLYN	You really think you're a god?
APOLLO	In a real sense, we were gods. We had the power of life and death. We could have struck out from Olympus and destroyed. We have no wish to destroy, so we came home again. It was an empty place without worshippers, but we had no strength to leave, so we waited, all of us, through the long years.
CAROLYN	But you said the others didn't die.
APOLLO	Even for a god, there's a point of no return. Hera was first. She stood in front of the temple and spread herself upon the wind, thinner and thinner, until only the wind remained. But I knew you would come. You striving, bickering, foolishly brave humans. I knew you would come to the stars one day. Of all the gods, I knew and I waited, waited for you to come and sit by my side.
CAROLYN	I don't understand.
APOLLO	Even five thousand years ago, the gods took mortals to them to love, to care for, like Zeus took Leto, my mother. We were gods of passion, of love.
CHEKOV	There is a repeated occurrence of registrations, a regular pulsating pattern of radiated energy. SCOTT: Unquestionably, an immensely powerful field of energy is being generated around here somewhere. We're just having difficulty focusing on it.
KIRK	Apollo has no difficulty focusing. He taps that energy, Mister Scott.
CHEKOV	Sir, some creatures can generate and control energy with no harm to themselves. The electric eel on Earth, the giant dry worm of Antos Four, the fluffy
MCCOY	Not the whole encyclopaedia, Chekov.
CHEKOV	The captain requires complete information.
MCCOY	Spock's contaminating this boy, Jim.
KIRK	Are you suggesting that he, Apollo, taps a flow of energy and channels it through his body?
CHEKOV	That would seem most likely, sir.
KIRK	Mister Chekov, I think you've earned your pay for the week. But where is the source of that power?
MCCOY	Number one on our list of things to do.
KIRK	Is that all you have to offer?
MCCOY	Yes, except my estimation for his physical condition. In spite of Apollo's bag of tricks, he comes up essentially normal with just a few variations. However, there's an extra organ in his chest that I can't even make a guess about.
KIRK	Bones, is it possible
MCCOY	Jim.
KIRK	Where's Lieutenant Palamas?
APOLLO	She is no longer of any concern to you.
SCOTT	You bloodthirsty Saracen, what have you done with her?
KIRK	Scotty!
MCCOY	Not good. Severe shock.
KIRK	All right, mister. You wanted worshippers? You've got enemies. You want us to bow down, you'll have to
APOLLO	You will learn discipline. You will learn
MCCOY	Chekov, give me a hand.
KIRK	Take care of Scotty.
CHEKOV	Are you all right, Captain?
KIRK	Where's Apollo?
CHEKOV	He disappeared again like the cat in that Russian story.
KIRK	Don't you mean the English story, the Cheshire Cat?
CHEKOV	Cheshire? No, sir. Minsk perhaps, but
KIRK	All right, all right, all right.
CHEKOV	Sir, there is something I noticed. Apollo looked very strange when he disappeared, tired or in pain. I don't know if it means anything.
KIRK	Very good, Mister Chekov. That might very well mean something.
MCCOY	How do you feel?
SCOTT	I can't get my arm to move.
MCCOY	Some neural damage.
KIRK	We've got to get out of here.
CHEKOV	How?
KIRK	Well, let's assume that five thousand years ago creatures like our friend Apollo did indeed visit Earth and form the basis of the Greek classic myths.
MCCOY	Makes sense.
KIRK	Most mythology has its basis in fact. If I remember my ancient legends, the gods, after expending energy, required rest, even as we humans.
CHEKOV	And Apollo's gone, after attacking you and Mister Scott. You think maybe he's off somewhere recharging his energy cells?
KIRK	Something like that. Remember, he's keeping a force field on the ship and he's expending energy down here. You said he looked pained and tired when he disappeared. If we can wear him out, overwork him, that might do it.
MCCOY	The trouble with overworking him is that it can get us killed.
KIRK	If we can provoke him so that he strikes one of us again, there's a chance that he'll be drained enough so the rest of us can jump him.
MCCOY	I still say it can get us killed.
KIRK	Not all of us, Bones. When he comes back, it's a chance we'll have to take.
SPOCK	Progress report.
UHURA	I'm connecting the bypass circuit now, sir. It should take another half hour.
SPOCK	Speed is essential, Lieutenant.
UHURA	Mister Spock, I haven't done anything like this in years. If it isn't done just right, I could blow the entire communications system. It's very delicate work, sir.
SPOCK	I can think no one better equipped to handle it, Miss Uhura. Please proceed.
UHURA	Yes, sir. Right away.
SPOCK	Progress, Mister Sulu?
SULU	Sectors one through twenty five charted and examined. No chance at all of power originating in those areas.
SPOCK	Continue the search.
SULU	Aye, sir. Fourteen B by twenty six index.
SPOCK	Mister Kyle.
KYLE	Yes, sir.
SPOCK	We're unable to break completely loose from this force field, but we might be able to punch some holes through it.
KYLE	What for, sir?
SPOCK	To shoot through. It might also relieve Lieutenant Uhura's communications problem. Take these equations to the nuclear electronics lab. I want them to work on the problem of negating the force field in selected areas. That might be done by generating a strong pinpoint charge of M-rays on some of these selected wave lengths and tying them in with the combined output of all our engines.
KYLE	Right away, sir.
APOLLO	Come here! I know you're trying to escape me. It's useless. I know everything you do. I tried to be compassionate toward your kind.
KIRK	You know nothing about our kind. You know only our remote ancestors who trembled before your tricks. Your tricks don't frighten us, neither do you. We've come a long way in five thousand years.
APOLLO	But you're of the same nature. I could sweep you out of existence with a wave of my hand and bring you back again. I can give life or death. What else does mankind demand of its gods?
KIRK	Mankind has no need for gods. We find the one quite adequate.
APOLLO	We shall not debate, mortal. I offer you eternal rest and happiness according to the ancient ways. I ask little in return, but what I ask for I insist upon. Approach me. I said approach me!
KIRK	We're busy. Look after the girl.
APOLLO	You will gather laurel leaves, light the ancient fires, kill a deer, make your sacrifices to me. Apollo has spoken!
KIRK	Go! Gather laurel leaves? You must be joking!
ALL	Ha ha ha ha.
MCCOY	Kill a deer. That's the funniest thing I ever heard.
CAROLYN	Captain.
KIRK	Lieutenant, get back.
APOLLO	You shall reap the rewards of your insolence!
KIRK	We're tired of your phony fireworks!
APOLLO	Mortal, you have earned this!
CAROLYN	No, don't!
KIRK	Lieutenant!
CAROLYN	A father doesn't destroy his children. You said you were gentle and understanding.
KIRK	Lieutenant!
CAROLYN	How can they worship you if you hurt them?
KIRK	Lieutenant.
CAROLYN	Apollo, please. You know so much of love. Please don't hurt them. Please.
APOLLO	I shall be lenient with you, for her sake. You will make plans to bring the rest of your people down. Be sure your artisans bring tools. You will need homes.
KIRK	And you will supply the herds of sheep, and the pipes we'll play, and the simple skins we'll wear for clothes.
APOLLO	You will dismantle your ship for the supplies you need, and I'll crush its empty hull. I have been too patient. I shall be patient no longer.
SCOTT	Captain, we've got to do something!
KIRK	We were doing something until our brave lady stepped in and saved us.
MCCOY	Any more good ideas, Jim?
KIRK	Yes, I have. One more. And it depends on the lieutenant's loyalty. If she fails us, we'd better get used to herding goats.
APOLLO	Fools. I offer them more than they could know. Not just a world, but all that makes it up. Man thinks he's progressed. They're wrong. He's merely forgotten those things which gave life meaning. You'll all be provided for, cared for, happy. There is an order of things in this universe. Your species has denied it. I come to restore it. And for you, because you have the sensitivity to understand, I offer you more than your wildest dreams have ever imagined. You'll become the mother of a new race of gods. You'll inspire the universe. All men will revere you almost as a god yourself. And I shall love you for time without end, worlds without end. You shall complete me, and I you.
KIRK	Kirk to Enterprise, come in. Enterprise, come in. Kirk to Enterprise, come in. Kirk to
SCOTT	Carolyn. What's happened to her?
KIRK	Scotty, I'll find out.
CHEKOV	Perhaps if I assisted.
KIRK	How old are you?
CHEKOV	Twenty two, sir.
KIRK	Then I'd better handle it. You all right?
CAROLYN	Oh, yes, I'm all right. I have a message for you.
KIRK	Come over there. Well?
CAROLYN	He wants us to live in peace. He wants to provide for us. He'll give us everything we ever wanted, and he can do it, too.
KIRK	All right, Lieutenant, you can come down from Mount Olympus now. You've got work to do.
CAROLYN	I don't understand.
KIRK	He thrives on love, worship, attention.
CAROLYN	Yes?
KIRK	We can't give him that worship, none of us can. Especially you.
CAROLYN	What?
KIRK	Spurn him. Reject him. You must. You're special to him.
CAROLYN	Yes. I love him.
KIRK	Lieutenant. All our lives, here and on the ship, depend on you.
CAROLYN	No, not on me.
KIRK	On you, Lieutenant! Reject him, and we have a chance to save ourselves. Accept him, and you condemn all of us to slavery, nothing less than slavery. We might never get help this far out. Or perhaps the thought of spending an eternity bending knee and tending sheep appeals to you.
CAROLYN	Oh, but you don't understand. He's kind, and he wants the best for us. And he's so lonely. What you ask would break his heart. How can I?
KIRK	Give me your hand. Your hand. Now feel that. Human flesh against human flesh. We're the same. We share the same history, the same heritage, the same lives. We're tied together beyond any untying. Man or woman, it makes no difference. We're human. We couldn't escape from each other even if we wanted to. That's how you do it, Lieutenant. By remembering who and what you are. A bit of flesh and blood afloat in a universe without end. The only thing that's truly yours is the rest of humanity. That's where our duty lies. Do you understand me?
CAROLYN	Yes. Yes, I understand. He's calling me.
KIRK	Lieutenant. You have your orders and your duty.
CAROLYN	Yes, sir. My orders and my duty.
UHURA	I think we can try it now, sir. Enterprise to Captain Kirk. Enterprise to Captain Kirk. Come in, Captain.
KIRK	Kirk here.
SPOCK	Spock here, Captain.
SPOCK	We've pinpointed a power source on the planet's surface which seems to have something to do with the force field.
SPOCK	Is there a structure of some sort near you?
KIRK	There is indeed, Mister Spock.
SPOCK	The power emanates from there.
KIRK	Very good. How are you doing on the force field?
SPOCK	We can negate sections of it, creating openings through which we can fire our phaser banks.
KIRK	Well, that ought to do it. Have Sulu lock all phaser banks onto the structure. Fire on my order only. Cut it fine. We'll be standing nearby.
SPOCK	Captain. I would recommend a discreet distance.
KIRK	I'd love to oblige you, Mister Spock, but we're not all together. Besides, we have Apollo to deal with.
KIRK	If that structure is the source of his power, I want to know where he is when we attack it.
KIRK	Kirk out.
KIRK	Bones, do you think that mysterious organ in Apollo's chest could have something to do with the transmission of energy?
MCCOY	Well, it doesn't serve any other purpose I know of.
SCOTT	Captain, we've got to wait until Carolyn comes back before we fire on the temple. We don't know what would happen to her if he was suddenly attacked. She might get killed.
KIRK	Yes, I know. I know. Scotty. We'll wait.
CAROLYN	I must say, Apollo, the way you ape human behaviour is remarkable, but there are some other things I must know. Your evolutionary patterns and your social development.
APOLLO	My what?
CAROLYN	I'm sure they're unique. I've never encountered a specimen like you before.
APOLLO	I am Apollo. I've chosen you.
CAROLYN	I'm sure that's very flattering, but I must get on with my work now.
APOLLO	Your work?
CAROLYN	I'm a scientist. My particular specialty is ancient civilisations, relics, and myths. Surely you know I've only been studying you.
APOLLO	I don't believe it. You love me.
CAROLYN	Love you? Be logical. I'm not some simple shepherdess you can awe. Why, I could no more love you than I could love a new species of bacteria.
APOLLO	Carolyn! I forbid you to go. I order you to stay.
CAROLYN	Is that the secret of your power over women, the thunderbolts you throw?
MCCOY	What the devil is that?
KIRK	Kirk here.
SPOCK	Spock, Captain.
SPOCK	Sensors are picking up an atmospheric disturbance in your area.
KIRK	Stand by your phasers, Mister Spock. Prepare to fire on my signal. Kirk out.
SCOTT	Captain, we've got to go and find her!
KIRK	We've got to be here when he comes back.
SCOTT	But what if he doesn't. What if he
KIRK	Scotty, just hold on!
SCOTT	Captain!
KIRK	All right. The temple is his power source. Let's bring him back to it. Get to cover. Mister Spock, fire those phasers.
SPOCK	Captain, you're too close.
KIRK	Fire those phasers! That's an order, Mister Spock!
SULU	All phaser banks, fire!
APOLLO	No! Stop! Stop, I say!
SULU	All phaser banks, maintain firing rate!
SPOCK	More power to the shields.
APOLLO	Stop!
KIRK	Scotty!
APOLLO	Stop, I say! I command it!
SPOCK	All banks maintain firing rate.
SULU	Maintaining, sir.
APOLLO	Stop! Stop! Stop!
APOLLO	I would have cherished you, cared for you. I would have loved you as a father loves his children. Did I ask so much?
KIRK	We've out grown you. You asked for something we could no longer give.
APOLLO	Carolyn, I loved you. I would have made a goddess of you. I've shown you my open heart. See what you've done to me.
APOLLO	Zeus, Hermes, Hera, Aphrodite. You were right. Athena, you were right. The time has passed. There is no room for gods. Forgive me, my old friends. Take me. Take me.
MCCOY	I wish we hadn't had to do this.
KIRK	So do I. They gave us so much. The Greek civilisation, much of our culture and philosophy came from a worship of those beings. In a way, they began the Golden Age. Would it have hurt us, I wonder, just to have gathered a few laurel leaves?
