character	line
KIRK	Captain's log, stardate 5121.5, orbiting the second planet in the Minarian star system. This star has long given evidence of entering a nova phase, and six months ago, a research station was established to make close-up studies of the star as its end approaches. Minara is now entering a critical period, and the Enterprise has been ordered to evacuate the station before the planet becomes uninhabitable. Yet our attempts to contact the station's personnel have been, so far, unsuccessful.
SPOCK	Dust. Apparently these instruments have not been recently used.
KIRK	Record tape. Maybe it'll tell us something about the personnel that lived here.
SCOTT	Enterprise to Captain Kirk. Come in, please.
KIRK	Kirk here. What is it, Enterprise?
SCOTT	Scott here, sir.
SCOTT	Our instruments have picked up a gigantic solar flare
SCOTT	With very high levels of cosmic rays accompanying it.
KIRK	How bad?
SCOTT	An enormous one.
SCOTT	Our sensors indicate the cosmic ray concentration measures three point five one on the Ritter scale. That'll play the very devil with the crew, as well as the ship.
SPOCK	At that rate, it will take exactly seventy four point one solar hours for the storm to pass.
KIRK	Get that ship out of here. Stay at minimum distance for absolute safety.
SCOTT	Aye, aye, sir. We'll beam you up in
KIRK	Negative. We're staying here. The atmosphere will protect us.
KIRK	Get that ship out of here, Mister Scott.
SCOTT	Very well, sir. Scott out.
KIRK	Mister Spock, what about that tape?
SPOCK	Remember, Captain, what we see on this tape happened approximately three months ago.
LINKE	I don't think I can stand another week in this godforsaken place.
OZABA	In his hand are the deep places of the earth. Psalm ninety five, verse four. Looks like he was listening.
LINKE	Who's out there?
MCCOY	What happened to them?
KIRK	Where's does that sound coming from? Spock, can you pinpoint it?
SPOCK	Negative, Captain. It doesn't register.
KIRK	Bones! Spock!
KIRK	Spock. Bones. Where are we?
SPOCK	Exactly one two one point three two metres beneath the planet surface, Captain.
KIRK	How did we get here?
SPOCK	Residual energy readings indicate we were beamed here by a matter-energy scrambler, similar to our own transporter mechanism.
MCCOY	That's a nasty cut, Jim. Does it hurt?
KIRK	No.
SPOCK	Captain, picking up a life-form reading bearing four two mark seven.
KIRK	One of the missing scientists?
SPOCK	Negative. Although humanoid, it is definitely not Homo Sapiens.
KIRK	Identification?
SPOCK	Impossible. I can make no exact identification other than it being humanoid.
KIRK	Let's find out. Phasers on stun.
SPOCK	Approaching the life-form, Captain.
KIRK	What is it?
SPOCK	Still undistinguishable.
KIRK	Be careful.
MCCOY	She seems harmless enough.
SPOCK	The sand-bats of Manark Four appear to be inanimate rock crystals, Doctor, until they attack.
KIRK	We're not going to hurt you. Is this your home? Do you live here? What about it, Spock? Analysis.
SPOCK	From what we know of the specific gravity and other environmental factors of this planet, a life-form such as hers could not evolve here.
KIRK	Are you responsible for bringing us here? Don't be afraid. Bones, what's wrong with her?
MCCOY	She's a mute, Jim. No vocal cords, not even vestigals. And I don't think it's a pathological condition.
KIRK	Explain.
MCCOY	She appears to be perfectly healthy. As for the other, her lack of vocal cords could be physiologically normal for her species, whatever that is.
KIRK	A race of mutes, like the civilisation on Gamma Vertis Four.
MCCOY	That's my observation, for whatever it's worth.
KIRK	Without speech, how's she going to be able to understand us? Unless she's a telepath.
SPOCK	An unlikely possibility, Captain, since over ninety eight percent of the known telepathic species send thoughts as well as receive them. She's made no attempt to contact our minds.
MCCOY	We can't keep referring to her as she, as if she weren't here.
KIRK	Do you have any ideas?
MCCOY	Well, I don't know about you, but I'm going to call her Gem.
SPOCK	Gem, Doctor?
MCCOY	Well, that's better than 'Hey, you.'
KIRK	I want to know why we're here. I want to know what's going on. And she knows.
KIRK	I'm Captain
THANN	We are aware of your identity, Captain.
KIRK	Who are you? Why did you bring us here?
LAL	We are Vians. Do not interfere.
KIRK	What do you intend to do with us?
THANN	Delay us no longer.
KIRK	We come Since you already know who we are, you must also know that we come in peace. Our prime directive specifically prohibits us from any interference.)
KIRK	I can't seem to stand up.
MCCOY	Don't fight the force field. There's something about it that upsets the body metabolism.
LAL	Not quite, Doctor. The field draws its energy from your bodies. The more you resist, the stronger the force field becomes. Sufficient.
KIRK	Mister Spock there must be an exit other than the one we just saw.
SPOCK	Correct, Captain.
MCCOY	Do you feel all right, Jim?
KIRK	Don't worry about me. They may have hurt her.
KIRK	Did they hurt you?
KIRK	The pain is gone. She touched my head, and the pain is gone.
MCCOY	The wound is completely healed. It fits, Jim. She must be an empath. Her nervous system is so sensitive, highly responsive that she can actually feel our emotional and physical reactions. They become part of her.
KIRK	Thank you.
SPOCK	Captain, in that direction, my tricorder is now picking up a substantial collection of objects.
KIRK	Details.
SPOCK	Electronically sophisticated devices. I fail to understand why my tricorder previously gave no indication of them being out there.
KIRK	Well they're there now. Let's go check them out. Staying here alone could be dangerous. Come with us.
SPOCK	Fascinating.
MCCOY	Look at this stuff.
KIRK	Bones Spock, come here.
MCCOY	Jim, Spock.
LAL	We are on schedule. Some further simple tests are necessary.
MCCOY	We've seen the results of some of your tests.
KIRK	I found our missing men. Dead. Another one of your experiments?
LAL	You're wrong. Their own imperfections killed them. They were not fit subjects. Come. Time is short.
KIRK	Yes. Your time is running out. This sun is about to nova. When it does, it'll destroy you, this planet, and this insane torture chamber.
KIRK	Let's get out of here.
SPOCK	Readings indicate the passage to the surface lies in this direction.
KIRK	Kirk to Enterprise. Kirk to Enterprise, come in. Out of range. Readings, Mister Spock?
SPOCK	Research station six kilometres in that direction, Captain.
KIRK	Let's get there as fast as we can. If the Enterprise has a search party, it'll be there.
KIRK	Spock! Much further?
SPOCK	Just ahead.
MCCOY	Hey, Jim, look. Scotty and a search party.
KIRK	Scotty!
MCCOY	Scotty!
KIRK	Stay there! Come on!
MCCOY	We're coming!
KIRK	Keep going.
LAL	Their will to survive is great.
THANN	They love life greatly to struggle so.
LAL	The prime ingredient.
MCCOY	Where'd they go?
SPOCK	I believe they were never actually present, Doctor. It was a mirage.
MCCOY	Where's Kirk?
MCCOY	Jim.
KIRK	What are you doing here? Where's Scotty?
SPOCK	Captain, it was a mirage.
THANN	Captain Kirk! We have decided that one specimen will be sufficient. You will come with us.
KIRK	What about the others?
LAL	We've no interest in them. They may go.
KIRK	Very well.
MCCOY	You can't go back there. You'll end up like the other two.
SPOCK	Captain, I request permission to be allowed
KIRK	Denied.
MCCOY	But, Captain
KIRK	You have your orders.
KIRK	What happened to my men?
LAL	They are safe.
KIRK	One specimen, you said. One specimen! What happened to my men?
THANN	Indeed, the prime ingredient.
KIRK	Where are they? Tell me! You said you'd let them go!
SCOTT	Mister Sulu, will you give us an estimate of how much longer we'll have until those solar flares will subside?
SULU	Aye, sir. Readings now indicate two point seven two one on the Ritter scale. At the present rate of decrease, we'll have to wait at least seventeen hours more before we can even attempt to enter orbit.
SCOTT	Aye. Well, as long as we're stuck out here, we might as well relax until the storm passes.
SULU	The storm's already lasted four hours longer than we've anticipated. Do you suppose our landing party could be in any danger?
SCOTT	That's not likely. The planet's atmosphere will give them ample protection. And if I know Captain Kirk, he'll be more worried about us than we are about him.
KIRK	What is it you want to know?
LAL	We seek no information as you mean. Your civilisation is yet too immature to have knowledge valuable to us.
KIRK	You don't need any knowledge from us, yet you're willing to kill for it. Is that what happened to Linke and Ozaba?
THANN	We did not kill them. Their own fears killed them.
KIRK	Well, what did you expect from them? And what do you want from me?
LAL	We've already observed the intensity of your passions and gauged your capacity to love others. Now we want you to reveal to us your courage and strength of will.
KIRK	Why? What is it you hope to prove? If my death is to have any meaning, at least tell me what I'm dying for.
THANN	If you live, you will have your answer.
MCCOY	Come on, Spock, the passageway was there before. It's got to be there.
SPOCK	Doctor, I'm unable to lock in on the previous readings. I can find no exit out of here.
MCCOY	Captain! Jim, what is it? What have they done to you?
MCCOY	Help him. Don't be afraid to help him.
MCCOY	Jim. You lie still. I'll check her out right away.
KIRK	Will she live?
MCCOY	She seems fine now.
KIRK	Can you explain what happened?
MCCOY	Complete empathy. She must be a totally functional empath. Her nervous system actually connected to yours to counteract the worst of your symptoms and with her strength, she virtually sustained your body's physiological reactions.
KIRK	She weakened. I could feel it. Is her life in danger?
MCCOY	It's impossible to say yet, but supplying your body with life support did drain her.
SPOCK	Her withdrawal seemed to suggest the fear of death, Doctor. Only your urging her on caused her to continue.
MCCOY	That's true. Fear would naturally be her first reaction. Perhaps she doesn't know our captain well enough yet to offer up her life for him.
KIRK	Could the strain really have killed her?
MCCOY	Oh yes. However, I'd assume that her instinct for self-preservation would take over to prevent it. How do you feel?
KIRK	I'm tired.
SPOCK	Can you recall what happened, Captain?
KIRK	I remember the laboratory, and they wanted to know something. But I, I can't remember.
MCCOY	Take it easy.
KIRK	What's the matter with me?
MCCOY	You have all the symptoms of the bends. Nitrogen bubbles in your blood caused the pain. Now how would one get the bends down here?
KIRK	You'll have to ask the Vians. Will I live?
MCCOY	Well, you could use some time in a decompression chamber. But otherwise, I'd say your recovery is about miraculous. I wish I could take the credit for it, but she did the work.
SPOCK	Captain, I noted that a light preceded you at the moment you were returned here from the Vian's laboratory.
MCCOY	Spock, why do you have to get so analytical at a time like
KIRK	No, he's right. Continue.
SPOCK	I conclude such a light is an energy transfer point linking this device to the power source.
KIRK	Can you tap into it?
SPOCK	If I can determine the frequency at which this device operates, I might be able to cause it to function for us.
KIRK	And get us out of here the same way we were brought in.
SPOCK	I would say so.
KIRK	Then I would say proceed.
LAL	You are called Captain. You are responsible for the lives of your crew. Is this correct?
KIRK	It is.
THANN	We find it necessary to have the co-operation of one of your men in our efforts.
KIRK	We will not co-operate.
LAL	When we resume our interrogations, you will decide which of your men we shall use. It is essential. There is an eighty seven percent chance that the doctor will die. And while Commander Spock's life is not in danger, the possibility is ninety three percent that he will suffer brain damage, resulting in permanent insanity.
KIRK	How's it coming, Spock?
SPOCK	I do not know, Captain. I'm beginning to understand its operating principles, but that is all.
MCCOY	Spock, It won't be long before the Vians come back. You better find out how that thing works and soon.
KIRK	Take it easy, Bones.
MCCOY	Men weren't intended to live this far underground. It's just not natural.
KIRK	And space travel is?
SPOCK	Some men spend the majority of their lives in mines beneath the surface.
MCCOY	I'm a doctor, not a coal miner.
SPOCK	I've recorded my principles and theories on the tricorder, Doctor. Should the Vians return, there is sufficient data for you and the captain to complete the adjustments.
MCCOY	I'm not a mechanic. I couldn't get that thing to work no matter how many notes you left.
SPOCK	Possibly not, but you and the captain together will be able to do so.
MCCOY	In any case, Spock, you're the logical one to leave with the captain.
KIRK	The decision's mine. If there are any decisions to be made, I'll make them. If and when it becomes necessary.
KIRK	I don't need any
MCCOY	I'm still Chief Medical Officer of the Enterprise. I'll tell you what you need and when you need it. Would you rather have the bends? That's it. Just lie down and relax.
SPOCK	How long will he be asleep, Doctor?
MCCOY	Between the emotional strain and that attack of bends, he's in pretty bad shape.
SPOCK	I'm not criticizing your action, Doctor. On the contrary, I'm quite grateful for it. The captain will be spared the strain of making so difficult a decision. You have simplified the situation considerably.
MCCOY	How?
SPOCK	While the captain is asleep, I am in command. When the Vians return, I shall go with them.
MCCOY	You mean, if I hadn't given him that shot
SPOCK	Precisely. The choice would have been the captain's. Now it is mine.
SPOCK	Your action is highly unethical. My decision stands.
MCCOY	Not this time, Spock.
MCCOY	The choice has been made. You stay here with my friends. They'll take care of you. Do you understand?
THANN	Come, then.
LAL	Doctor, please understand that if there was any other way to accomplish our purpose
MCCOY	Get on with it.
KIRK	Why did you let him do it?
SPOCK	I was convinced in the same way you were, Captain. By the good doctor's hypo.
KIRK	Anything?
SPOCK	Hmm. A most unusual device. It is a control unit, but not a control mechanism. In fact, it is not a mechanical device.
KIRK	What exactly is it?
SPOCK	This control is attuned to one electrical pattern of energy, the pattern produced by the mental impulses of the person who possesses it. It is activated solely by mental commands.
KIRK	Can you adapt it, re-attune it to fit our brain pattern?
SPOCK	I shall attempt to do so. However, it is not possible to adjust the control to fit more than one pattern at a time. I am, of course, most familiar with my own pattern. Therefore, with your permission, I
KIRK	Do whatever you have to to make it work, Spock. What disturbs me is why the Vians let us keep it.
SPOCK	Fascinating. They must have known we were capable of comprehending this control and making use of it.
KIRK	And that we would use it to escape.
SPOCK	The only logical assumption is that they wish to let us go.
KIRK	And they keep McCoy.
SPOCK	That is evidently their intention, Captain.
KIRK	Somehow, you're the crux, the focal point of all this. Even before we got here, she was a prisoner. They didn't hurt her, they didn't even threaten her.
SPOCK	Indeed, the facts would indicate that she's essential to their purpose.
KIRK	Yes, there is a purpose, but what is it? Has all the pain and terror happened, or been made to happen for you?
SPOCK	Completed, Captain. The adjustments are delicate. They may not survive more than even one use. However, there should be sufficient energy to transfer us to the Enterprise.
KIRK	Will it take us to McCoy?
SPOCK	If you so desire.
KIRK	The best defence is a strong offense, and I intend to start offending right now. Aim for the lab.
KIRK	Bones. Spock. Get him down. His wrists. His pulse is almost gone. How is he?
SPOCK	Severe heart damage. Signs of congestion in both lungs. Evidence of massive circulatory collapse.
MCCOY	I
KIRK	Don't talk. Don't speak. Take it easy until we get you back to the ship. What is it? What's the matter?
SPOCK	He's dying, Jim. We can make him comfortable, but that is all.
KIRK	You don't know. You're not a doctor.
SPOCK	Internal injuries. Bleeding in the chest and abdomen. Haemorrhage of the spleen and liver. Seventy percent kidney failure.
MCCOY	He's right, Jim. Being a doctor has its drawbacks. I always wondered why I Thanks.
KIRK	How long?
SPOCK	It could happen anytime.
MCCOY	The correct medical phrase, ay, Spock? You've got a a good bedside manner, Spock.
KIRK	Can't we do something?
SPOCK	I'm afraid not.
KIRK	Gem might be able to help him, the way she helped me, but could his nearness to death also kill her?
SPOCK	Uncertain, Captain. Dr. McCoy's analysis of her reaction assumes that her instinct for self-preservation would prevent it. However, we cannot be positive.
KIRK	If she could just strengthen him and keep him from sinking further into death, we might be able to save him.
LAL	No interference will be permitted.
KIRK	She can save his life. Let us help her to go to him.
LAL	She must not be urged or forced to take action.
THANN	All must proceed without interference.
LAL	The purpose that brought us together
KIRK	What purpose can all this serve, except the fulfilment of some need of yours?
LAL	We have but one need left in life, and that is to see the completion of the final moment of our test.
THANN	Be patient.
KIRK	Patient? Our friend is dying.
THANN	Perhaps.
SPOCK	What purpose can be served by the death of our friend, except to bring you pleasure? Surely beings as advanced as yourselves know that your star system will soon be extinct. Your sun will nova.
THANN	We know.
SPOCK	Then you also know that the millions of inhabitants on its planets are doomed.
LAL	That is why we are here.
KIRK	This arena of death that you have devised for your pleasure. Will it prevent this catastrophe?
LAL	No, it will not, but it may save Gem's planet. Of all the planets of Minara, we have the power to transport the inhabitants of only one to safety.
THANN	If Gem's planet is the one that will be saved, we must make certain beyond any doubt whatsoever they are worthy of survival.
KIRK	How will the death of our friend serve this purpose?
LAL	His death will not serve it, but her willingness to give her life for him will. You were her teachers.
KIRK	We were? What could she learn from us?
LAL	Your will to survive. Your love of life. Your passion to know. They are recorded in her being.
THANN	Her planet will be fortunate.
LAL	Each of you is willing to give his life for the others. We must now find out whether that instinct has been transmitted to Gem.
THANN	Time grows short.
SPOCK	You were correct, Captain. Everything that has occurred here has been caused to happen by them. This has all been a great laboratory, and we have been the subjects of the test.
THANN	No. We only created the circumstances. That was necessary.
LAL	Your actions were spontaneous. Everything that is truest and best in all species of beings has been revealed by you. Those are the qualities that make a civilisation worthy to survive.
THANN	Behold. That is most significant. An instinct new to the essence of her being is generating.
LAL	Compassion for another is becoming part of her functioning life system.
THANN	She is afraid.
LAL	She's saving herself. She does not yet have the instinct to save her people.
THANN	We have failed?
LAL	No. No, not yet.
SPOCK	Captain, Dr. McCoy's life is not solely dependent on Gem. The Vians too must be capable of saving his life.
THANN	True.
KIRK	Then you cannot let him die.
LAL	His death is not important. We must wait to see whether her instinct for self-sacrifice has become stronger than her instinct for self-preservation.
MCCOY	Don't touch me. Stay away. Jim. Spock. Are you here?
KIRK	Yes, Bones.
MCCOY	Don't let her touch me. She'll die. Jim, I can't destroy life, even if it's to save my own. I can't. You know that. I can't let you do it.
SPOCK	Captain?
KIRK	What is it?
SPOCK	The intensity of emotion is draining us and building up the force field.
KIRK	Yes, I know.
SPOCK	It draws its energy from us, Captain. In spite of what we see, all emotion must be suppressed. That might weaken the field.
KIRK	I'll try.
KIRK	Yes.
KIRK	Spock.
LAL	You cannot use our powers to change what is happening.
KIRK	You must save the life of our friend.
LAL	No. We will not. Her instinct must be developed to the fullest. The test must be complete.
SPOCK	It is complete. Gem has earned the right of survival for her planet. She offered her life.
LAL	To offer is not proof enough.
KIRK	If death is all you understand, here are four lives for you.
KIRK	We will not leave our friend. You've lost the capacity to feel the emotions you brought Gem here to experience. You don't understand what it is to live. Love and compassion are dead in you. You're nothing but intellect.
LAL	Farewell.
KIRK	Strange.
SPOCK	What is puzzling you, Captain?
KIRK	I'm not puzzled, Mister Spock. I am awed.
MCCOY	I'm with you, Captain. She awed me.
KIRK	No, no. I wasn't thinking of Gem. I was thinking of that fantastic element of chance that out in limitless space we should come together with Gem.
SPOCK	Captain, the element of chance can virtually be eliminated by a civilisation as advanced as the Vians.
SCOTT	Not to dispute your computer, Mister Spock, but from little what you've told me, I would say she was a pearl of great price.
KIRK	What, Scott?
SCOTT	Do you not know the story of the merchant? The merchant, who when he found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had and bought it.
KIRK	Yes, she was all that. And whether the Vians bought her or found her makes little difference. She was of great value.
MCCOY	Well, personally, I find it fascinating that with all their scientific knowledge and advances, that it was good old-fashioned human emotion that they valued the most.
SCOTT	Perhaps the Vulcans should hear about this.
KIRK	Mister Spock, can you be prevailed upon to bring them the news?
SPOCK	Possibly, Captain. I shall certainly give the thought all the consideration it is due.
KIRK	Mister Sulu, ahead warp factor two.
SULU	Aye, aye, sir. Warp factor two.
