character	line
KIRK	Report, Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV	Full scan. Results negative. Radiation level normal. Atmosphere and terrain are undisturbed. No evidence of a colony nor any residual aftereffect of a force that might have annihilated it.
KIRK	Life readings, Doctor McCoy?
MCCOY	Nothing. They said they were being attacked by an unidentified ship.
CHEKOV	Which we were unable to detect upon approach.
KIRK	An entire human colony, a whole settlement. One hundred men, women and children. Who did it? And why? Kirk here.
SPOCK	Spock here, Captain.
SPOCK	Sensors have picked up a Klingon ship, closing fast.
KIRK	Deflectors on. Condition Red. Protect yourselves.
KIRK	Total reply if attacked. So that's the answer. Klingons.
SULU	Trouble aboard the Klingon ship. Evidence of explosions, massive destruction.
SPOCK	Captain, the enemy ship is drifting, totally disabled.
SPOCK	And we never fired upon her.
KIRK	Maintain Red Alert.
KANG	You attacked my ship! Four hundred of my crew dead. Kirk, my ship is disabled. I claim yours. You are now prisoners of the Klingon Empire against which you have committed a wanton act of war!
KANG	For three years, the Federation and the Klingon Empire have been at peace. A treaty we have honoured to the letter.
KIRK	We took no action against your ship, Kang.
KANG	Were the screams of my crew imaginary? What were your orders, Kirk? To start a war? You've succeeded. To test a new weapon? We shall be happy to examine it.
KIRK	There was a Federation colony on this planet. It was destroyed.
KANG	By what? No bodies, no ruins. A colony of the invisible?
KIRK	Yes, a test of a new Klingon weapon, leaving no traces. Federation ships don't specialise in sneak attacks.
KANG	We have wondered when you would begin. You lured my ship into ambush by a false Klingon distress call. You will tell us why with the proper persuasion.
KIRK	You received a distress call? We received a distress call.
KANG	I don't propose to spend the rest of my life on this ball of dust arguing your fantasies. The Enterprise is mine! Instruct your transporter room to beam us aboard.
KIRK	Go to the devil.
KANG	We have no devil, Kirk. But we understand the habits of yours. I shall torture you to death one by one until your noble captain cries enough. Who will be first?
CHEKOV	Cossacks! Filthy Klingon murderers! You killed my brother Piotre. The Archanis Four research outpost. A hundred peaceful people massacred! Just like you did here. My brother, you killed my brother.
KANG	And you volunteer to join him. That is loyalty.
KIRK	Chekov! Stop the torture!
MCCOY	Jim, you can't hand over the Enterprise.
KIRK	Help Chekov.
KANG	Don't plan any tricks, Kirk. I will kill one hundred hostages at the first sign of treachery.
KIRK	I'll beam you aboard the Enterprise. Once there, no tricks.
CHEKOV	Captain, you can't. Don't let these animals have the ship.
MCCOY	Move aside.
KANG	Animals? Your captain crawls like one. A Klingon would never have surrendered. Order everybody in this area to be transported up. All weapons on him.
KIRK	Kirk to Enterprise. Mister Spock.
SPOCK	Here, Captain.
KIRK	Mister Spock, we have guests. Adjust transporter to wide field. Beam up everyone in the target area.
SPOCK	Understood, Captain. Transporter room.
KIRK	Full security, Johnson, on the double.
KIRK	Good work, Spock.
MCCOY	What happened?
SPOCK	Our landing party is intact, Doctor.
SCOTT	All others suspended in transit. Who are the guests, by the way?
KIRK	Klingons.
SCOTT	Well, they're right in here.
KIRK	Johnson?
JOHNSON	Security on the way, sir.
CHEKOV	Captain, leave them where they are. Non-existence. That's so many less Klingon monsters in the galaxy.
KIRK	Bring them in.
JOHNSON	Move 'em out. Move!
KANG	Liar!
KIRK	I said no tricks after we reach the ship. You're a prisoner of the Federation of Planets against which you may or may not have committed an act of war.
KANG	There are still survivors aboard my ship. SCOTT: Captain, we've not been able to get through to Starfleet Command. All subspace frequencies have been blocked, and there's too much radiation coming from that Klingon ship. It's a hazard to the vicinity.
KIRK	Prepare to destruct.
KANG	Completing the job you started?
KIRK	You wouldn't be standing here if I had.
SPOCK	First group from the Klingon vessel, Captain.
KANG	My wife, Mara, and my science officer.
MARA	Kang, what has happened?
KANG	More Federation treachery. We are prisoners.
MARA	What will they do to us? I've heard of their atrocities, their death camps. They will torture us for our scientific and military information.
KIRK	Apparently you have a few things to learn about us. Detain them in the crew lounge. Programme the food synthesiser to accommodate our guests. You'll be well-treated, Kang.
KANG	So I have seen.
KIRK	Secure from Red Alert.
KIRK	But maintain general quarters. Scan this sector for other ships. Run a full check on the colony. I want this thing nailed down fast.
CHEKOV	We know what happened. That distress call.
SPOCK	At the moment we received the distress signal from the colony on Beta Twelve A, the Klingons were too far distant to have been the attackers. Moreover, they also were apparently attracted by a distress call.
CHEKOV	Lies. They want to start a war by pretending that we did.
MCCOY	Chekov may be right. The Klingons claim to have honoured the truce, but there have been incidents, raids on our outposts.
KIRK	No proof that Klingons committed it.
MCCOY	What proof do we need? We know what a Klingon is.
SPOCK	Our log tapes will indicate our innocence in the present situation.
KIRK	Unfortunately, there's no guarantee that they will be believed.
KIRK	Report.
UHURA	Still no contact with Starfleet Command, sir. Outside communications blanketed.
KIRK	Keep trying. We've got a diplomatic tiger by the tail.
SCOTT	Transporter room to Bridge. Klingon ship is vacated, sir.
KIRK	Very good, Scotty. Mister Sulu?
SULU	Forward phasers locked and ready to fire, sir.
KIRK	Fire phasers.
SPOCK	Sensor sweeps reveal no other ships within range, Captain.
KIRK	Lieutenant Uhura?
UHURA	No contact with Starfleet as yet, sir.
KIRK	Mister Sulu, change course to seventeen mark four, warp factor three.
SULU	Warp factor three, sir.
KANG	When I take this ship, I'll have Kirk's head stuffed and hung on his cabin wall.
MARA	They will kill us before we can act.
KANG	No, they wish to question us, learn our strength, our plans. They never will.
MARA	We are forty against four hundred.
KLINGON	Four thousand throats may be cut in one night by a running man.
KANG	Patience. Vigilance. They will make a mistake. Capture of the Enterprise will give us knowledge to end this war quickly.
UHURA	Captain! This doesn't make sense. Carriers are normal. Channels are open. There's still no outside contact! I don't understand it, sir. Could the Klingons be doing something?
KIRK	Sulu?
SULU	Change in course. Accelerating. Helm dead. Auxiliary navigation dead.
KIRK	Override.
SULU	Nothing responds, Captain.
KIRK	Scotty, stop all engines.
SCOTT	I would if I could, sir.
SCOTT	The controls have gone crazy. Something's taken over.
KIRK	Scotty!
SCOTT	The engines, sir.
SCOTT	They've gone to warp nine, by themselves!
KIRK	New course?
SULU	Nine oh two mark five.
KIRK	That'll take us out of the galaxy.
UHURA	Captain, reports coming in from the lower decks. Emergency bulkheads have closed. Almost four hundred crewmen are trapped down there, sir.
KANG	Most interesting. The bulk of your crew trapped, your ship racing from this galaxy at wild speeds. Delightful. How did I perform this sabotage, Kirk? All my men are here.
KIRK	Johnson. Get down to Security. Search every section. Some Klingons may have beamed aboard undetected from the wrecked ship. Then get down to Engineering and help Scotty hammer things back to normal. And free those trapped crewmen. And before I put you in the brig, there's a little something I owe you.
KIRK	Phasers.
KIRK	Out!
BALD KLINGON	Stand and fight, you cowards.
KIRK	Sickbay.
KIRK	Bridge.
KIRK	The Klingons are free. They're armed as we are. They'll try to take the ship. Scotty, how many men do we have?
SCOTT	Three hundred and ninety two trapped below decks.
KIRK	Deploy forces to protect your section and the auxiliary control centre.
KIRK	Check the armoury, and try and free those trapped crewmen.
SCOTT	The doors and bulkheads won't budge. We'll have to cut through.
KIRK	Blow out the bulkheads if you have to. We need numbers. What kind of luck have you had controlling the ship's speed?
SCOTT	No, sir. She's a projectile at warp nine. And don't ask me what's holding her together.
KIRK	Five-minute report. Kirk out.
KIRK	Full sensor scan of the ship. Report on any movement by the Klingons. The Klingon Empire has maintained a duelling tradition. They think they can beat us with swords.
SPOCK	Captain, neither the Klingon technology nor ours, is capable of this. The instantaneous transmutation of matter. I doubt that they are responsible.
KIRK	Any other logical candidate?
SPOCK	None. However, if they had such power, would they not have used it to create more effective weapons and only for themselves?
KIRK	Mister Sulu. Get below. Take command of Engineering and auxiliary control.
SULU	Aye, sir.
CHEKOV	Captain.
KIRK	Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV	Captain!
KIRK	Mister Chekov, as you were. Chekov!
CHEKOV	Sir, let me go too. I've got a personal score to settle with the Klingons.
KIRK	This is no time for a vendetta. Maintain your post.
CHEKOV	Captain!
KIRK	Chekov, maintain your post!
CHEKOV	Don't try to stop me, Captain. I saw what they left of Piotre, and I swore on his grave I would avenge his murder.
SULU	What's Chekov's grudge against the Klingons? Who's Piotre?
KIRK	His only brother, killed in a Klingon raid.
SULU	His brother? He never had a brother. He's an only child.
KIRK	Sulu, get down to Engineering.
SULU	Aye, sir.
KIRK	Security, this is the captain. Find Mister Chekov and bring him to the bridge.
UHURA	Captain, why would, why would Chekov believe he has a brother?
KIRK	I don't know, but he does. And now he wants revenge for a non-existent loss.
MCCOY	There. Those filthy butchers. There are rules, even in war. You don't keep hacking at a man after he's down. Hand me that numanol capsule.
KLINGON	Layout and specifications of the Enterprise, Commander.
MARA	Enemy numbers are the same as ours. We have a fighting balance.
KANG	Then we take the ship.
KLINGON	A ship that is headed towards the end of the galaxy?
KANG	In time, in time. We must take these sections. First, Engineering.
KIRK	Kirk here.
SCOTT	Scott here, sir. There's no use trying to free those men down below. The phaser torches, they won't cut through the bulkheads, nor the doors, nor the decks. There's something happened to the metal.
KIRK	What about the armoury?
SCOTT	I'm there now, sir, and you never saw such a fine collection of antiques in your life.
KIRK	Get back to Engineering. Try to re-establish engine control, and talk to ordnance about manufacturing phaser replacements.
SCOTT	Aye, sir. A Claymore. You're a beauty.
KIRK	What the blazes is going on?
SPOCK	Scans indicate that our forces and those of the Klingons are exactly equal at thirty eight each. The Klingons control deck six and starboard deck seven, while we control all sections above.
KIRK	Constant surveillance, Mister Spock.
SPOCK	Most curious, Captain. There appear to be more life-energy units on board than can be accounted for by the presence of the Enterprise crew plus the Klingons. A considerable discrepancy.
KIRK	Could more Klingons have beamed aboard?
SPOCK	I shall attempt a compensatory reading of Klingon units.
SCOTT	Any signs of those devils, Mister Sulu?
SULU	All clear, Mister Scott.
SCOTT	They've taken Engineering. I don't know how many more of those Klingons are around, but we'll split up here and try to make it back to the bridge.
SULU	Aye.
ALL	Victory! Victory!
SPOCK	No additional Klingons detected, Captain. It is an alien life force, a single entity. I cannot ascertain its location.
KIRK	An alien life force. We must make contact, find out what it wants.
SPOCK	Readings being diverted to the library computer for analysis. Computer report.
COMPUTER	Alien life force onboard is composed of pure energy. Type unknown. Actions indicate intelligence and purpose.
SPOCK	What purpose?
COMPUTER	Insufficient data for further analysis.
KIRK	A brother that never existed, a phantom colony, imaginary distress calls, the creation of these weapons. Do you sense a pattern, Mister Spock?
SPOCK	If the alien is creating these events, Captain, it is apparently capable of manipulating matter and mind.
KIRK	And now it has control of the Enterprise and taking us out of the galaxy. But why?
SPOCK	Captain, I am constrained to point out that since minds are evidently being influenced, we cannot know at this moment whether our own memories are completely accurate and true.
KIRK	We must talk to Kang, bury the hatchet.
SPOCK	An appropriate choice of terms. However, it is notoriously difficult to arrange a truce with the Klingons once blood has been drawn.
MCCOY	Truce? Are you serious? I've got men in Sickbay, some of them dying. Atrocities committed on their persons, and you talk about making peace with these fiends? If our backs were turned, they'd jump us in a minute. And you know what Klingons do to prisoners. Slave labour, death planets, experiments!
KIRK	McCoy?
MCCOY	While you're talking, they're planning attacks. This is a fight to the death. We'd better start trying to win it!
SPOCK	We are attempting to end it, Doctor. By reason, preferably. There is an alien on board which may have created this situation.
MCCOY	Who cares what started it, Mister Spock. We're in it! Murderers. We should wipe out every one of them!
KIRK	The alien is the real threat. That's the enemy we have to wipe out.
UHURA	Sickbay calling, Doctor. There are more wounded men requiring your attention.
MCCOY	How many more men must die before you two begin to act like military men instead of fools?
KIRK	Kirk here.
KANG	This is Kang.
KIRK	Kang, there's something important I must discuss with you.
KANG	I have captured your engineering section. I now control this ship's power and life-support systems.
KANG	I have deprived all areas except our own. You will die of suffocation in the icy cold of space.
KIRK	The Enterprise is heading out of our galaxy, controlled by a mysterious alien somewhere aboard the ship. Engineering has been taken over by Klingons who have cut off life-support systems. Mister Sulu.
SULU	Captain.
KIRK	Get down to emergency manual control. Try to protect our life-support circuits and auxiliary power.
SULU	Aye, Captain.
SCOTT	Sir. Chekov was right, Captain.
KIRK	Scotty, I'm glad you've come.
SCOTT	We should have left those fuzz-faced goons in the transporter. That's right where they belong!
KIRK	Scotty?
SCOTT	Non-existence! Now they can study the Enterprise, add our technology to theirs, change the balance of power. You've jeopardised the Federation!
KIRK	Scotty, take it easy.
SPOCK	Easy, Mister Scott.
SCOTT	Keep your Vulcan hands off me. Just keep away! Your feelings might be hurt, you green-blooded half-breed!
SPOCK	May I say that I have not thoroughly enjoyed serving with humans? I find their illogic and foolish emotions a constant irritant.
SCOTT	Then transfer out, freak!
KIRK	Gentlemen! Spock! Scotty. Spock. Spock! Stop it! You're half human! What are we saying? What are we doing to each other?
SPOCK	Fascinating. The result of stress?
KIRK	We've been under stress before. It's never set us at each other's throats.
SCOTT	But this is war.
KIRK	There isn't any war! Or is there?
SCOTT	Have we forgotten how to defend ourselves?
KIRK	Scotty. What's happening to us? We've been trained to think in other terms than war. We've been trained to fight its causes, if necessary. Then why are we behaving like a group of savages? Look at me. Look at me. Two forces aboard this ship, each of them equally armed. Has a war been staged for us, complete with weapons and ideology and patriotic drum beating? Even, Spock, even race hatred?
SPOCK	Recent events would seem to be directed toward a magnification of the basic hostilities between humans and Klingons. Apparently, it is by design that we fight. We seem to be pawns.
KIRK	But what's the game? And whose? And what are the rules?
SPOCK	It is most urgent that we locate the alien entity immediately, and determine its motives and a method for halting its activities.
SCOTT	Without sensors? All our power down? This thing could go anywhere.
KIRK	Yes. Mister Sulu, report.
SULU	No good, Captain.
SULU	Circuits are in, but systems just aren't responding.
KIRK	We're getting something.
SULU	Aye, Captain. Power and life-support restored. Remotes on standby.
KIRK	Good work.
SCOTT	But, Captain, I didn't do it. Everything just came on by itself.
MARA	Their life-support systems have resumed.
SPOCK	Sensors may be operating.
KIRK	Start scanning. Let's find that alien.
MARA	Holding steady.
KANG	Cause them to be unsteady.
MARA	They appear to be controlled from another location. Also unable to affect ship's course for return to our empire.
KANG	One of Kirk's tricks. Could he bypass this circuit? What power is it that supports our battle yet starves our victory? Power. Interrupt it at their main life-support couplings. Where?
MARA	Number six deck. Come.
SPOCK	Alien detected in the engineering section, near reactor number three.
KIRK	Let's go.
CHEKOV	You don't die yet. You're not human, but you're very beautiful. Very beautiful.
KIRK	Chekov!
SPOCK	Jim, he's not responsible.
KIRK	What have I done? There's an alien entity aboard the ship. It's forcing us to fight. We don't want to. We don't know what its motive is. We're trying to find out. You must help us. Take me to Kang. A temporary truce, that's all I ask. Spock, take her.
KIRK	Chekov. Chekov. Is this what's in store for us, from here on in? Violence, hatred.
MCCOY	Brain waves show almost paranoid mania. What happened?
KIRK	He lost control. So did I. We're becoming animal warriors. Let's go, Spock.
MCCOY	Orderly. Jim. Johnson's heart wound is almost healed. Same with the other casualties. Sword wounds in the vital organs, massive trauma, shock. They're all healing at a fantastic rate.
SPOCK	It would appear that the entity wants us alive.
KIRK	Why? So we can fight, and fight, and keep coming back for more like some bloody coliseum? What's next, the roar of crowds?
SPOCK	Perhaps human and Klingon psychologies and combat capabilities are being tested by an alien with designs on both powers.
MCCOY	Gentlemen, if we are pawns, you're looking at one who is extremely sorry.
SPOCK	I understand, Doctor. I, too, felt a brief surge of racial bigotry. Most distasteful.
KIRK	Let's find the alien. You come with us. Maybe we can prove to you that it exists.
KIRK	What is it?
SPOCK	Totally unfamiliar.
KIRK	What do you want? What are you doing here?
JOHNSON	Reporting for duty, sir.
KIRK	Duty? Did McCoy release you from Sickbay?
JOHNSON	I released myself.
KIRK	Then get back to Sickbay!
JOHNSON	Not on your life, sir. I'm fit and ready for action. The Klingons almost did me in once. I'm out to even the score.
KIRK	I order you
JOHNSON	I've got my orders. I'm obeying orders! Kill the Klingons! It's them or us, isn't it?
KIRK	Johnson!
SPOCK	Fascinating. During Lieutenant Johnson's emotional outburst, his expression of hatred and lust for vengeance, the alien's life energy level increased. When the Lieutenant became unconscious, the alien lost energy.
KIRK	It subsists on the emotions of others.
SPOCK	This one appears to be strengthened by mental irradiations of hostility, violent intentions.
KIRK	It exists on the hate of others.
SPOCK	To put it simply. And it has acted as a catalyst, creating this situation in order to satisfy that need. It has brought together opposing forces, provided crude instruments in an effort to promote the most violent mode of conflict.
KIRK	And kept numbers and resources balanced, so that it can maintain a constant state of violence. It's got to have a vulnerable area. We've got to get rid of it.
SPOCK	Then all hostile attitudes on board must be eliminated. The fighting must end and soon.
KIRK	Or we're a doomed ship, travelling forever between galaxies, filled with eternal bloodlust, eternal warfare. Kang has got to listen. We've got to pool our knowledge and get rid of this thing. Kang. Kang, this is Captain Kirk.
KIRK	Kang, do you read me?
MARA	Commander, it's a trick!
KIRK	Kang. He won't answer.
SPOCK	The alien is affecting his mind, Captain. Soon, it will become so powerful that none of us will be able to resist it.
SCOTT	Scotty, sir.
SCOTT	The ship's dilithium crystals are deteriorating. We can't stop the process.
KIRK	Time factor?
SCOTT	In twelve minutes, we'll be totally without engine power.
KIRK	Well, do whatever you can. Kirk out.
KIRK	And so we drift in space, with only hatred and bloodshed aboard. Now do you believe?
KIRK	Captain's log, stardate Armageddon. We must find a way to defeat the alien force of hate that has taken over the Enterprise. Stop the war now, or spend eternity in futile bloody violence.
SCOTT	There's no change, Captain. The dilithium crystals are discharging.
SPOCK	There's nothing we can do about it.
KIRK	If I could talk to Kang, somehow cut through the Klingon lines, make peace before it's too late.
SPOCK	We have nine minutes, fifty three seconds to power zero. SPOCK: There is, of course, a logical alternative. Kang's wife is, after all, our prisoner. Perhaps a threat.
SCOTT	Aye. Now that's something the Klingons would understand.
KIRK	Kang! Kang, this is Captain Kirk.
KIRK	I know you can hear me, so don't cut me off. We have Mara, your wife. We talk truce now, or she dies. Reply.
KIRK	She has five seconds to live. Reply.
KANG	She is a victim of war, Captain.
KANG	She understands.
KIRK	He called my bluff.
MARA	You're not going
KIRK	The Federation doesn't kill or mistreat its prisoners. You've been listening to propaganda, fables. How much time?
SPOCK	Eight minutes, forty two seconds.
MARA	So this was no trick?
SCOTT	It's the alien that's done this. We're in its power, our people and yours.
KIRK	We only wanted to stop the fighting to save us all.
MARA	We have always fought. We must. We are hunters, Captain, tracking and taking what we need. There are poor planets in the Klingon systems, we must push outward if we are to survive.
KIRK	There's another way to survive. Mutual trust and help.
MARA	I will help you now.
KIRK	How?
MARA	I will take you to Kang. I will add my voice to yours.
SCOTT	I wouldn't trust her, Captain.
KIRK	We can't get through the Klingon defences in time, unless. Spock. Intra-ship beaming from one section to another. It's possible?
SPOCK	It has rarely been done because of the danger involved. Pinpoint accuracy is required. If the transportee should materialise inside a solid object, a deck or wall.
SCOTT	Even if it could work, she may be leading you into a trap.
KIRK	We're all in a trap. This is the only way out.
SCOTT	We'll go with you.
KIRK	No. That'd start the final battle. I believe her. Prepare the transporter. We'll wait for your signal.
SCOTT	But she can't guarantee that Kang will stop to listen, right, Mister Spock?
SPOCK	No one can guarantee the actions of another.
SPOCK	Your automatic setting is laid in, Captain.
SPOCK	When transporter is energised, you will have eight seconds to get to the pads.
KIRK	I hope your computations are correct, Mister Spock.
SPOCK	You'll know in seven point nine seconds, Captain.
KANG	Mara, you're alive, and you bring us a prize.
MARA	Kang, wait. He's come alone, unarmed. He must talk to you.
KANG	Brave captain, what about?
MARA	No! Listen to him. We are all in danger.
KIRK	Mara. Before you start killing, give me one minute.
MARA	Kang, don't!
KANG	What have they done to you, Mara? Are you out of your mind? What have they done to you? I see why the human beast did not kill you.
MARA	They didn't harm me. Listen to him. Stop! Stop, please!
KANG	With your death, we win.
KIRK	Nobody wins. Have any more of your men died? We can't be killed. There's an alien aboard. It wants us alive.
KANG	No doubt you will reassemble after I have hacked you to bits!
MARA	You fool.
KIRK	Look! Look, Kang. For the rest of our lives. A thousand lifetimes. Senseless violence, fighting, while an alien has total control over us.
KIRK	All right. All right. In the heart. In the head. I won't stay dead. Next time I'll do the same to you. I'll kill you. And it goes on, the good old game of war, pawn against pawn! Stopping the bad guys. While somewhere, something sits back and laughs and starts it all over again.
MCCOY	Let's jump him.
SPOCK	Those who hate and fight must stop themselves, Doctor. Otherwise, it is not stopped.
MARA	Kang, I am your wife. I'm a Klingon. Would I lie for them? Listen to Kirk. He is telling the truth.
KIRK	Be a pawn, be a toy, be a good soldier that never questions orders.
KANG	Klingons kill for their own purposes.
SPOCK	All fighting must end, Captain, to weaken the alien before our dilithium crystals are gone.
KIRK	Lieutenant Uhura.
UHURA	Yes, Captain?
KIRK	Put me on ship-wide intercom.
UHURA	Aye, sir.
KIRK	Kang.
UHURA	Ready, Captain.
KIRK	This is Captain Kirk. A truce is ordered. The fighting is over. Lay down your weapons.
KANG	This is Kang. Cease hostilities. Disarm.
SPOCK	The cessation of violence appears to have weakened it, Captain. I suggest that good spirits might make an effective weapon.
KIRK	Get off my ship. You're a dead duck here. You're powerless. We know about you, and we don't want to play. Maybe there are others like you around. Maybe you've caused a lot of suffering, a lot of history, but that's all over. We'll be on guard now, ready for you. So ship out! Come on! Haul it!
MCCOY	Yeah, out already.
KANG	Out! We need no urging to hate humans. But for the present, only a fool fights in a burning house. Out!
