character	line
KIRK	Captain's log, stardate 3211.7. We are entering standard orbit about Gamma Two, an uninhabited planetoid with an automatic communications and astrogation station.
KIRK	Ensign Chekov, Lieutenant Uhura, and I will beam down and make a routine check of its facilities.
CHEKOV	Standard orbit, Captain.
KIRK	Good. Mind the store, Mister Spock.
SPOCK	Acknowledged, Captain.
KIRK	Lieutenant Uhura, let's go.
UHURA	Yes, sir.
KIRK	Energise, Scotty.
SCOTT	Aye, Captain.
CHEKOV	Captain. what happened?
KIRK	It must be a transporter malfunction.
CHEKOV	That was a rough trip.
KIRK	This isn't Gamma Two. Look at the colour of that sky.
UHURA	This is the craziest landing pad I've ever seen.
KIRK	That's a trinary sun.
SCOTT	Scott to Bridge.
SPOCK	Spock here.
SCOTT	Mister Spock, the Captain, Lieutenant Uhura, and Chekov. they vanished. They got onto the transporter platform and they just vanished.
SPOCK	I presume you mean they vanished in a manner not consistent with the usual workings of the transporter, Mister Scott.
SCOTT	Aye, of course I mean that. You think I'd call if they just beamed down?
SPOCK	Have you reversed controls?
SCOTT	I've made all the proper checks. There was nothing. There was no flash of light, nothing. They were gone.
SPOCK	Power surge?
SCOTT	Not down here. All the dials were right and the transporter was functioning perfectly.
SPOCK	Recheck your equipment, Mister Scott. I'll scan for them on the planet's surface. Spock out.
CHEKOV	But Captain, if we're not on Gamma Two, then where are we?
KIRK	That's what I'd like to know. Kirk to Enterprise. Kirk to Enterprise. Dead.
CHEKOV	Mine, too.
UHURA	Captain. Look.
KIRK	Phasers on stun. Fire. Hand-to-hand.
KIRK	Captain's log, stardate 3211.8. While beaming down from the Enterprise to inspect facilities on Gamma Two, the normal transporter sequence has been interrupted, and we find ourselves on a strange and hostile planet, surrounded by creatures belonging to races scattered all through the galaxy.
GALT	Excellent, Captain Kirk. Although we expected strength and competitive spirit, we are greatly pleased.
KIRK	Either of you hurt?
UHURA	I don't think so, Captain.
CHEKOV	Nobody's hurt, Captain. Yet.
GALT	Admirable, Chekov. Admirable. You also, Uhura. Your spirit is as great as the captain's. I can see you all will prove invaluable here. I am Galt, Master Thrall of the planet Triskelion. I have been sent to welcome you.
GALT	There, Captain. Now you are prepared for your training.
KIRK	How do you know our names?
GALT	The Providers were expecting you, Captain. They arranged your transportation.
KIRK	These Providers of yours, are they
GALT	Correction, Captain. The Providers are not ours. We are theirs.
KIRK	What do they want from us?
GALT	You are to be trained, of course. What other use is there for thralls?
KIRK	Thralls? You must be mistaken. We're officers of a United spaceship on Federation business.
GALT	There has been no mistake. Your old titles mean nothing here, Captain. You are thralls now. You are to be taken to the training enclosure. Come. Places have been prepared for you.
KIRK	We're not going anywhere until we have some information. Who are you? What is this place? What do you think you're going to do with us?
GALT	I am Galt, the Master Thrall. This place is the planet Triskelion. You are to be trained and spend the rest of your lives here.
SCOTT	Mister Spock, I've checked that transporter from one end to the other. Every circuit works perfectly. Whatever that power surge was, it had nothing to do with the transporter or any other system aboard this ship.
SPOCK	I'm beginning to believe that, Mister Scott. I've conducted two sweeps of the planet's surface. There is no sign of life.
MCCOY	Then what the devil is happening? Does that mean their atoms are just floating around out there?
SPOCK	No, Doctor. Even that would show up on our sensors.
SCOTT	Where are they then? SPOCK: The only answers are negative. No magnetic storms, no ionic interference, no breakdown in your equipment.
MCCOY	A negative attitude is no good to us. We can't just leave them out there, wherever they are.
SPOCK	We shall continue sensor scans, Doctor. At the moment, that is all we can do, except hope for a rational explanation.
MCCOY	Hope? I always thought that was a human failing, Mister Spock.
SPOCK	True, Doctor. Constant exposure does result in a certain degree of contamination.
GALT	These are your quarters. Open, thralls.
GALT	That was foolish, Captain. Escape is quite impossible, as demonstrated by your collars of obedience. Return to your quarters.
SPOCK	They are not within the confines of this solar system.
MCCOY	It's been nearly an hour. Can people live that long as disassembled atoms in a transporter beam?
SPOCK	I have never heard of a study being done, but it would be a fascinating project.
MCCOY	Fascinating? Those people are friends of ours out there, if they're still alive.
SPOCK	Precisely.
MCCOY	The odds are not good.
SPOCK	No. I would say approximately four hundred
MCCOY	Don't quote odds and don't give me anymore dispassionate logic, Mister Spock. Just keep looking for them.
SPOCK	I would welcome a suggestion, Doctor, even an emotional one, as to where to look.
MCCOY	First time you've ever asked me for anything, and it has to be an occasion like this.
CHEKOV	Captain, the Enterprise. They will be trying to find us, won't they?
UHURA	They'll try, but where do they look? We're here, and we don't know where it is.
KIRK	This system's star is a trinary. Limits it a bit, but we're a long way from the Enterprise, if we're in the same dimension.
LARS	I am your drill thrall. I am called Lars.
KIRK	What do you want from her? LARS: That is not your concern. Your drill thralls will attend you presently. There is little time.
UHURA	What are you doing? Get out!
LARS	I have been selected for you.
KIRK	Lieutenant, are you all right? Uhura! Lieutenant! Lieutenant, are you all right? Lieutenant, answer me! Lieutenant! What's happening to Lieutenant Uhura? Lieutenant, are you all right?
LARS	It is not allowed to refuse selection.
SHAHNA	Come. It is the nourishment interval.
SPOCK	Captain's log, stardate 3259.2. First Officer Spock in command. The Captain, Lieutenant Uhura, and Ensign Chekov have been missing for nearly two hours. Computer probability projections are useless due to insufficient data. HAINES: Mister Spock, I'm getting a fluctuating energy reading on this hydrogen cloud. It's faint, sir, but it consistently reads an excess of predictable energy level.
SPOCK	Interesting. It seems to be an ionisation trail.
MCCOY	What would account for that, Spock?
SPOCK	Exactly the question I have just fed to the computers, Doctor. And the answer is, nothing known to us would account for it.
SCOTT	Well, the transporter has neither the power nor the range to account for that.
SPOCK	Plot a follow course, Ensign Haines.
HAINES	Aye, sir.
MCCOY	You're going to leave here without them and run off on some wild goose chase halfway across the galaxy just because you found a discrepancy in a hydrogen cloud?
SPOCK	Doctor, I am chasing the Captain, Lieutenant Uhura, and Ensign Chekov, not some wild aquatic fowl. This is the only lead we've had.
HAINES	Course plotted and laid in, Mister Spock. Three ten mark two four one.
SPOCK	Initiate. Warp factor two.
CHEKOV	You, you have been selected for me?
TAMOON	No. I am only your drill thrall. I have brought you nourishment. It is a nice name, Chee-koo.
CHEKOV	Chekov.
TAMOON	Chee-koof! It is a very nice name. I am called Tamoon.
CHEKOV	Oh, pleased, Pleased to know you, miss.
TAMOON	You are a fine specimen. I like you better than the others. I will instruct you well, so my Provider will take you.
CHEKOV	That's very kind of you, miss, but
TAMOON	If my Provider is pleased, we may even be selected for each other.
KIRK	I didn't realise I was so hungry. Whatever you call this, it is very good.
SHAHNA	It is nourishment. We call it that.
KIRK	Nourishment. That's very practical. What do you call this collar?
SHAHNA	It is a sign of our Provider. By the colour of the lights it can be known who holds us. When you are vended, you will also have a colour.
KIRK	Vended? You mean bought, sold.
SHAHNA	When you are developed. The Provider who offers the most quatloos puts his colour on us.
KIRK	Our race has another name for it. Slavery. This collar of obedience, is Galt the only one who can operate it?
SHAHNA	It is only to warn and punish.
KIRK	How does he work it?
SHAHNA	It is not permitted to talk of that.
KIRK	Will you provide all my nourishment?
SHAHNA	Of course. I am your drill thrall. I will train you well.
KIRK	Yes, I'm sure you will. I must say, I've never seen a top sergeant who looked like you.
SHAHNA	What does that mean?
KIRK	It means you're a very beautiful woman.
SHAHNA	What is beautiful?
KIRK	You mean nobody's ever told you that before? well, er, beautiful is, Beautiful. That's beautiful. Shahna, where were you born?
SHAHNA	Born? I have been here always.
KIRK	Your parents. Where are they? Your mother and father.
SHAHNA	She who bore me was killed in a freestyle match.
KIRK	Freestyle?
SHAHNA	You will learn all these things.
KIRK	Lars and Chekov's drill thrall. They weren't born here. Where do they come from?
SHAHNA	It is not permitted. The exercise interval. This is your training harness. Put it on.
MCCOY	This is ridiculous. There's nothing out there. Nothing at all.
SCOTT	We certainly seem to be heading into an empty sector.
SPOCK	Projecting back along the path of ionisation, the nearest system is M two four alpha.
SCOTT	That must be two dozen light years away.
SPOCK	Eleven point six three zero.
MCCOY	Are you suggesting that they could have transported over a distance of? You're out of your Vulcan mind, Spock.
SPOCK	I'm suggesting nothing, Doctor. I am merely pursuing the only logical course available to us.
GALT	Hold. This thrall was slow in obeying a command. For his punishment, he will be practice target. As you charge, you will strike the practice target when you pass. You begin, Uhura.
UHURA	No!
GALT	It is not allowed to refuse a training exercise.
UHURA	I don't care whether it's allowed or not. I will not do it.
KIRK	None of us will do it, Galt.
GALT	It is part of your training. The Providers wish it.
KIRK	The devil with the Providers.
CHEKOV	Cossacks.
GALT	We have been tolerant because you are newcomers, but I see you must be given a lesson. Lars. Kloog. Kloog will administer correction. Uhura, take your place on the triad. Tie her.
KIRK	No. No! I am responsible for the actions of my people. I demand to see the Providers.
GALT	It is not permitted. But, Captain, since you assume responsibility for your people, you will take the punishment. It is less painful than the collar. Turn around. {Lars ties Kirk's hands.) Captain, you will be practice target. It is a shame to lose you, Captain, but it is worth it as an example to the others.
KIRK	Captain's log, supplemental. Stardate, unknown. Our strange captivity continues. This planet is called Triskelion. We do not know its location. We do not know who controls it. Its dangers are abundantly clear.
GALT	Hold. Rest interval. Fifteen trisecs.
KIRK	He's pretty fast with that whip.
SHAHNA	This will strengthen you. Drink it. Kloog's left eye is weak. Approach him from that side.
GALT	Resume places.
ONE	Hold.
GALT	We hold, Provider One.
ONE	Provider One bids three hundred quatloos for the newcomers.
TWO	Provider Two, three hundred and fifty quatloos.
THREE	Provider Three, four hundred.
TWO	One thousand quatloos.
THREE	One thousand fifty quatloos.
ONE	Two thousand.
GALT	Two thousand quatloos are bid. Is there a challenge? The newcomers have been vended to Provider One.
KIRK	We're free people. We belong to no one.
TWO	Such spirit. I wager fifteen quatloos that he is untrainable.
THREE	Twenty quatloos that all three are untrainable.
TWO	Five thousand quatloos that the newcomers will have to be destroyed.
ONE	Accepted. Mark them, Galt.
GALT	You now bear the mark of a fine herd. But I must warn you, any further disobedience now that you are full-fledged thralls will be punishable by death.
SCOTT	Mister Spock, it just doesn't make sense they could have come this far. If there's any chance at all it is to continue to search in the area they were lost.
SPOCK	We searched the area.
SCOTT	It's always possible to miss something.
SPOCK	Such as a failure in the transporter mechanism?
SCOTT	No, sir. There was no sign of failure.
SPOCK	There was no sign of them in the area of Gamma Two.
MCCOY	If they weren't there it's ridiculous to think they could still be alive. Not after all this time.
SPOCK	In that case, Doctor, we have nothing to lose by pursuing our present course.
KIRK	Slow down. Slow down. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. We've covered over two miles. Can we take a breather? A rest?
SHAHNA	Oh. Very well. You are tired.
KIRK	Oh. well, it's good to get away from that development area, even for a while. Shahna, why do the Providers, why do they like to watch others being hurt, killed?
SHAHNA	That is the way.
KIRK	Their voices sound mechanical. Are they computers?
SHAHNA	Computers?
KIRK	You've seen them. Do they have bodies?
SHAHNA	Not such as ours.
KIRK	What is this place?
SHAHNA	It is not used.
KIRK	It's very old. Does it have a name? Shahna, could it have been a city for the Providers?
SHAHNA	I do not think it is well to ask such things.
KIRK	They do have bodies, or did have.
SHAHNA	One does not talk of such things.
KIRK	Very pretty country. Very much like my home planet, Earth.
SHAHNA	Planet?
KIRK	Where I was born. Shahna, don't you ever look at the night sky? The lights up there?
SHAHNA	I have looked at them.
KIRK	Well, those are stars. And around them are planets. And there are people that live on them, Just like us.
SHAHNA	How can one live on a flicker of light?
KIRK	From Earth, Triskelion's three suns are just a flicker of light. Actually, this is the darkest planet I've ever seen.
SHAHNA	Dark? But all is lighted. Here, the chambers.
KIRK	The thralls have no freedom, Shahna. You don't think or do anything but what the Providers tell you.
SHAHNA	What else would one do?
KIRK	Love, for one thing.
SHAHNA	What is love?
KIRK	Love is the most important thing on Earth. Especially to a man and a woman.
SHAHNA	We, too, have mates. When it is time to increase the herd, my Provider will select one for me.
KIRK	On Earth, we select our own mate. Someone we care for. On Earth, men and women live together, help each other, make each other happy.
SHAHNA	I do not think your words are allowed.
KIRK	All right. All right. Tell me about the Providers. What do they look like? Where do they live?
SHAHNA	I have never seen them, but they are said not to be like us. They stay in
KIRK	Stop it. Stop it! I'm responsible! I made her talk! Stop it! You're killing her! She did nothing wrong! It was my fault. If you want to punish someone, punish me! Please.
ONE	Is that what you humans call compassion? It is interesting, but it has no value here. You present many interesting aspects, Captain, but you must learn obedience. Then you will be an excellent thrall.
KIRK	It's all right. It's all right. You can stop crying now, Shahna. It's all right.
SHAHNA	You risked bringing their anger on yourself. Why did you do it?
KIRK	It's the custom of my people to help one another when we're in trouble.
SHAHNA	And this. Is this also helping?
KIRK	You could call it that.
SHAHNA	Please, help me once again. I did not know it could be like this between people. Is it always so in the place you come from?
GALT	Captain, you do indeed present many surprises. Because you have amused the Providers, there will be no punishment. Return to your quarters.
SPOCK	Mister Scott, can we manage anything faster than warp six?
SCOTT	It's my opinion that we've gone too far as it is, sir.
MCCOY	He's right, Spock. We've lost Jim and the others on Gamma Two. Now you've dragged us a dozen light years on some wild hunch that
SPOCK	Doctor, I do not respond to hunches. No transporter malfunction was responsible for the disappearance. They were not within the Gamma system. A focused beam of extremely high-intensity light was directed into the Gamma system from the trinary system we are now approaching. No known natural phenomena could have caused that beam. Does that clarify the situation?
MCCOY	No, it doesn't. It's still a fancy way of saying that you're playing a hunch. well, my hunch is that they're back on Gamma Two dead or alive and I still want another search.
SCOTT	Doctor McCoy speaks for me, too, sir.
SPOCK	I see. Gentlemen, I am in command of this vessel, and we shall continue on our present course. Unless it is your intention to declare a mutiny.
SCOTT	Mister Spock!
MCCOY	Who said anything about a mutiny, you stubborn, pointed-eared. All right. If we don't find them here, do we still have another search on Gamma Two?
SPOCK	Agreed. Mister Scott, could you manage warp seven?
SCOTT	I would be more than content to do so, sir, and maybe a wee bit more.
SPOCK	Ensign, warp seven.
KIRK	You're disturbed about what happened today.
SHAHNA	Yes. You have made me feel strangely. If it were allowed, I would ask that you have another drill thrall. KIRK: I wouldn't like that, Shahna. I wouldn't like that at all.
KIRK	I'm sorry, Shahna.
CHEKOV	This is going to kill our romance.
KIRK	What about Lars?
UHURA	He's gone to report me. I said I didn't like the food.
KIRK	I think Galt is the only one who controls these collars. If we can find the phaser that I threw at Lars, we can use the circuits to short out these collars.
CHEKOV	Captain.
ONE	Only a reminder. You Earth people are most unusual, most stimulating.
HAINES	Standard orbit. SPOCK: Sensors indicate only one concentration of life forms on the planet, on the lower hemisphere. Humanoid readings.
MCCOY	Well, at least that gives our landing force a starting point.
SPOCK	There will be no landing force, Doctor. Assuming the captain and the others are still alive, it would be unwise to endanger them by beaming down a large contingent.
MCCOY	Well we're not going to leave them there while we just sit and wait.
SPOCK	Interesting. No power source. It may be shielded.
MCCOY	And it may be just a wild goose chase like we've been telling you.
SPOCK	I shall beam down, Doctor. If I am unable to communicate, a landing party may be necessary.
MCCOY	Well, Mister Spock, if you're going into the lion's den, you'll need a medical officer.
SPOCK	Daniel, as I recall, had only his faith. But I welcome your company, Doctor. Mister Scott, you'll be in command.
SCOTT	Aye, sir.
ONE	No, Mister Spock, you will not leave the ship.
ONE	None of your control systems will operate. MCCOY : What the devil's going on?
KIRK	Spock? Spock!
KIRK	Spock?
KIRK	Welcome to Triskelion, gentlemen.
KIRK	By now it must be obvious to you that you have been expected.
SCOTT	What the voice said was true, sir. Nothing is functioning.
ONE	Commendations, gentlemen. Your ingenuity in discovering the whereabouts of your companions is noteworthy.
KIRK	What you're hearing, gentlemen, is a Provider.
ONE	We are known to the thralls as Providers because we provide for all their needs. The term is easier for their limited mental abilities to comprehend.
KIRK	Providing for all their needs means using thralls, people stolen from other parts of the galaxy
KIRK	To fight each other, and the Providers gamble on the winner.
SPOCK	Fascinating.
KIRK	But these Providers haven't the courage to show themselves.
ONE	Your species has great curiosity.
ONE	We knew that. You are interesting in many ways.
KIRK	But you are afraid.
ONE	You present no danger while you wear the collar
ONE	And you wear it as long as you live.
KIRK	Then show yourselves.
ONE	There is no objection.
KIRK	The power source. Shielded by solid rock.
ONE	We are one thousand of your metres beneath the surface.
KIRK	Primary mental evolution. Incredible.
TWO	That is not true, Captain. Once we had humanoid form, but we evolved beyond it.
THREE	Through eons of devoting ourselves exclusively to intellectual pursuits, we became the physically simple, mentally superior creatures you see before you.
KIRK	A species that enslaves other beings is hardly superior, mentally or otherwise.
ONE	The thralls are necessary to the games. We have found athletic competitions our only challenge, the only thing which furnishes us with purpose.
KIRK	It's an unproductive purpose, unworthy of your intellect.
ONE	We use only inferior beings.
KIRK	We have found that all life forms in the galaxy are capable of superior development. Perhaps you're not as evolved as you believe.
THREE	An interesting speculation, Captain. You and your people are most challenging.
TWO	Yes, most challenging. It was hoped that such new blood would stimulate our stock of thralls. How unfortunate that you must be destroyed.
KIRK	Our destruction will result only in your own. You may control the Enterprise, but you cannot match the force of the entire Federation.
ONE	Your ship will be destroyed by a magnetic storm. No communications with your base will be possible. Your fate will remain a mystery to your people.
KIRK	And you call yourselves superior! You're murderers without the spirit to really wager for the lives you take.
ONE	Wager? Explain yourself, Captain.
KIRK	My people pride themselves on being the greatest, most successful gamblers in the universe. We compete for everything. Power, fame, women, everything we desire, and it is our nature to win. And for proof, I offer you our exploration of this galaxy.
THREE	We are aware of your competitive abilities, Captain.
KIRK	Well, then, I wager that with weapons of your own choice, right here and now, my people can overcome an equal number of thralls set against us.
THREE	A hundred quatloos on the newcomers.
ONE	Four hundred quatloos against the newcomers.
TWO	Two hundred quatloos against!
THREE	Five hundred for the newcomers. Contest by multiple elimination.
KIRK	Wait! Wait! Hear me! We can't wager for trifles like quatloos. The stakes must be higher.
ONE	Name your stakes, Captain.
KIRK	If we win, the Enterprise and its crew leaves here in safety. Further more, all the thralls on the planet must be freed.
TWO	Anarchy. They would starve.
KIRK	You will educate and train them to establish a normal self-governing culture.
THREE	Thralls govern themselves? Ridiculous!
KIRK	We have done the same with cultures throughout the galaxy. Are you willing to admit that we can do something you can't?
TWO	There is nothing we cannot do!
ONE	And if you lose, Captain?
KIRK	If we lose? We will remain here, the entire crew of the Enterprise. The most stubborn, determined competitors in the universe. We'll become thralls, enter your games, obey your orders without rebellion. You'll be assured of generations of the most exciting wagering you've ever had.
ONE	Your stakes are indeed high, Captain.
KIRK	Not for true gamesters.
THREE	We will accept your stakes on one condition.
KIRK	Name it.
ONE	As leader of your people, your spirit seems most indomitable. We suggest you alone, pitted against three contestants of our choosing.
KIRK	Three against one? Those are pretty high odds.
TWO	Not for true gamesters, Captain.
KIRK	Your, your terms are unfair.
ONE	On the contrary, they're extremely fair, since your alternative is death.
KIRK	well, in that case, I'll accept your terms.
ONE	Galt will prepare you.
ONE	Because you wager your skill for all your people, they will be permitted to watch the outcome of the game on the ship's viewscreen.
SCOTT	Mister Spock, look!
ONE	Captain, you will defend. Thralls must stay in the blue area. You will take the yellow. Touching an opposing colour deprives a contestant of one weapon. An opponent must be killed to be removed from the game. If only wounded, he is replaced by a fresh thrall. Is that clear, Captain?
KIRK	Yes, that's clear.
MCCOY	What in the name of heaven is this?
SCOTT	Heaven's got very little to do with this.
GALT	Shahna.
SHAHNA	You lied. Everything you said.
SHAHNA	The thralls surrender!
ONE	You have won, Captain Kirk, unfortunately. However, the terms of the wager will be honoured. You are free. Remove your collars.
KIRK	The thralls will be trained?
ONE	They will be trained. We have said it.
KIRK	I think you'll find it a much more exciting game than the one you've been playing. I'm sorry, Shahna. I didn't lie. I did what was necessary. Someday, I hope you'll understand.
SHAHNA	I understand, a little. You will leave us now?
KIRK	Yes.
SHAHNA	To go back to the lights in the sky?
KIRK	Yes.
SHAHNA	I would like to go to those lights with you. Take me?
KIRK	I can't.
SHAHNA	Then teach me how, and I will follow you.
KIRK	There's so much you must learn here first. The Providers will teach you. Learn it, Shahna. all your people must learn before you can reach for the stars. Shahna. Scotty!
SCOTT	Aye, sir.
KIRK	Beam us up.
SHAHNA	Goodbye, Jim Kirk. I will learn, and watch the lights in the sky, and remember.
