character	line
THARN	We believe what you say, Captain Kirk, but our position has not altered. The Halkan Council cannot permit your Federation to mine dilithium crystals on our planet.
KIRK	We have shown the council historical proof that our missions are peaceful.
THARN	We accept that your Federation is benevolent at present, but the future is always in question. Our dilithium crystals represent awesome power. Wrongful use of that power, even to the extent of the taking of one life, would violate our history of total peace. To prevent that, we would die, Captain. As a race, if necessary.
KIRK	I admire your ethics and hope to prove ours. Kirk to Enterprise.
SPOCK	Spock here.
KIRK	Report on magnetic storm, Mister Spock.
SPOCK	Standard ion type, Captain, but quite violent and unpredictable.
KIRK	Rough ride?
SPOCK	If we stay.
KIRK	Stand by to beam up landing party.
KIRK	Plot an extended orbit to clear disturbance. Kirk out.
SPOCK	Comply, Mister Sulu.
SULU	Aye, sir.
KIRK	When may we resume discussion?
THARN	The council will meditate further, but do not be hopeful of any change. Captain, you do have the might to force the crystals from us, of course.
KIRK	But we won't. Consider that. Enterprise. Transporter room, energise.
KYLE	Trouble, sir.
KIRK	Spock was right. It was a rough trip.
SPOCK	At norm, Mister Kyle. Controls at neutral.
KYLE	Yes, sir.
SPOCK	Status of mission, Captain?
KIRK	No change.
SPOCK	Standard procedure, Captain? Mister Sulu, you will programme phaser barrage on Halkan cities.
SULU	Yes, Mister Spock.
SPOCK	Their military capability, Captain?
KIRK	None.
SPOCK	Regrettable that this society has chosen suicide. Mister Kyle, you were instructed to compensate during the ion storm.
KYLE	But I tried, Mister Spock, I tried.
SPOCK	Carelessness with the equipment cannot be tolerated.
KYLE	But Mister Spock, I
SPOCK	Your agoniser.
KYLE	No, Mister Spock.
SPOCK	Your agoniser, please.
KYLE	No, Mister Spock! I tried. I really tried.
KIRK	Captain's log, stardate unknown. During an ion storm, my landing party has beamed back to the Enterprise and found it and the personnel aboard changed. The ship is subtly altered physically. Behaviour and discipline has become brutal, savage.
SPOCK	Mister Scott, the storm has caused some minor damage in your section. There are also injuries requiring your attention, Doctor. Well, gentlemen?
KYLE	Mister Spock.
SPOCK	Yes.
KYLE	The power beam jumped for a moment, sir, as the landing party was about to materialise. I never saw it happen before.
SPOCK	Due to your error, Mister Kyle?
KYLE	No, Mister Spock. Before.
SPOCK	Possibly a result of the severe storm. Captain, do you feel any abnormal effects?
KIRK	Yes. Doctor McCoy, you'd better look us over. That was a rough beam-up.
MCCOY	Yes, sir.
KIRK	Mister Spock, have those transporter circuits checked.
SCOTT	Captain, what is all this?
UHURA	How did we get in these
KIRK	Not now. Not now.
MCCOY	What is this? Everything's all messed up and changed around, out of place.
UHURA	Captain, what's happened?
MCCOY	No, not everything. That spot, I spilt acid there a year ago. Jim, What in blazes is this?
KIRK	I don't know. It's our Enterprise but it isn't. Maybe
UHURA	Maybe what, Captain?
KIRK	Any of you feel dizzy when we were in the transporter beam?
UHURA	Yes.
SCOTT	Aye.
KIRK	When we first materialised.
SCOTT	I did.
KIRK	It happened twice. First we were in our own transporter chamber, then we faded, and then when we finally materialised, we were here. Wherever this is.
SCOTT	Captain, the transporter chief mentioned a surge of power. The transporter lock might have been affected by the ion storm and we just materialised somewhere else.
KIRK	Yes, here. Not our universe, not our ship. Something parallel. A parallel universe co-existing with ours on another dimensional plane. Everything's duplicated, almost. Another Enterprise. Spock with a beard.
UHURA	Another Captain Kirk, another Doctor McCoy, another
MCCOY	An exchange. If we're here
KIRK	Then our counterparts must have been transporting up at the exact same time. Similar storms on both universes disrupted the circuits. We're here, and they're on our Enterprise. Probably asking the same questions. Are we in another universe, and if so, how do we get back to our own? They'll use the computer, and we have to.
MCCOY	What about the Halkans? We can't let them be destroyed.
KIRK	Scotty, can you buy me some time. Get below and short out the main phaser couplings. They'll think the storm blew the stand-by circuits.
SCOTT	Aye, sir.
KIRK	Then get on this technology. It's all we have to work with if we want to get back home. The intercom may be monitored. Use your communicators for private messages. Subfrequency and scramble.
SCOTT	Aye, sir.
KIRK	Lieutenant.
UHURA	Yes, sir.
KIRK	Get to your post. Run today's communication from Starfleet Command. I want to know my exact orders and options, if any.
UHURA	Yes, sir.
KIRK	Bones.
UHURA	Captain, I'm
KIRK	Uhura, you're the only one who can do it. I'll be right there.
UHURA	Yes, sir.
KIRK	Bones. Let's take a look at the library. We have a lot to learn.
SULU	Mister Chekov, phaser setting for planetary target A.
CHEKOV	Co-ordinates seven one two stroke four, Mister Sulu.
SULU	Port batteries locked.
SULU	Still no interest, Uhura? Hmm? I could change your mind.
UHURA	You are away from your post, Mister.
SULU	Is the captain here? Is Spock here? When the cat's away
KIRK	Communications status.
UHURA	No storm damage, sir. All stations report normal. You're ordered to annihilate the Halkans unless they comply. No alternative.
SULU	Phasers Locked on target A, Captain. Approaching optimum range. Commence fire, Captain? Captain?
KIRK	Stand by, Mister Sulu.
SCOTT	I've been ordered to check phaser couplings for possible damage by the storm.
GUARD	Do you have authorisation from security, sir?
SCOTT	Captain's orders.
GUARD	I'll have to check with Security Chief Sulu, sir.
SCOTT	Never mind. I'll attend to it.
KIRK	Kirk here.
SCOTT	Phaser report, sir. No damage.
KIRK	Very good. Thank you, Mister Scott. Kirk out.
SPOCK	Planet's rotation is carrying primary target beyond arc of phaser lock.
SULU	Shall I correct orbit to new firing position?
KIRK	No.
SPOCK	Lock on to secondary city.
SULU	Aye, sir.
KIRK	Lieutenant Uhura, contact the Halkan council. I wish to talk to them again.
UHURA	Yes, sir.
SPOCK	Captain?
KIRK	This is a new race. They offer other things of value besides dilithium crystals.
SPOCK	But we cannot expect their co-operation. They have refused the Empire. Command procedure dictates that we provide the customary example.
SULU	Secondary target now moving beyond our phaser lock.
KIRK	Put phasers on standby, Mister Sulu.
SPOCK	A serious breach of orders, Captain.
KIRK	I have my reasons, and I'll make them clear to you in my own good time.
UHURA	Captain, I have the leader on the Halkan Council waiting on channel B.
KIRK	It is useless to resist us.
THARN	We do not resist you.
KIRK	You have twelve hours to consider your position.
THARN	Twelve years, Captain Kirk, or twelve thousand. We are ethically compelled to deny your demand for our dilithium crystals, for you would use their power to destroy.
KIRK	We will level your planet and take what we want. That is destruction. You will die as a race.
THARN	To preserve what we are.
KIRK	We will not argue. Twelve hours. No more. Close communications. Turn phasers off.
SULU	Aye, sir.
SPOCK	Twelve hours, Captain? That is unprecedented.
KIRK	I shall be in my quarters. Lieutenant Uhura, have Doctor McCoy and Mister Scott meet me there.
SPOCK	Captain, you've placed yourself in a most grave position. This conduct must be reported.
KIRK	You're at liberty to do so, Mister Spock.
CHEKOV	Deck five, sir?
CHEKOV	So you die, Captain, and we all move up in rank. No one will question the assassination of a captain who has disobeyed prime orders of the Empire.
KIRK	Captain's log, supplemental. I command an Enterprise where officers apparently employ private henchmen among the crew, where assassination of superiors is a common means of advancing in rank.
MAN	Your men, Captain. Easy, Farrell. I did your job. Ask the captain.
FARRELL	Sir?
KIRK	Yes, he did your job.
FARRELL	Smart boy, switching to the top dog.
KIRK	Get him out of here.
MAN	Mister Chekov was going to make me a chief. You could make me an officer.
KIRK	All right. You're working for me.
MAN	A commission?
KIRK	You're in line. You might even make captain.
MAN	Yes, sir.
KIRK	Not on my ship.
FARRELL	The booth for this one, sir?
KIRK	Yes, the booth. Carry on.
MCCOY	Here. Here. What's this?
KIRK	It's called blood. Watch your step. The officers move up by assassination. Chekov tried it on me.
SCOTT	Mister Sulu is Security Chief, like the ancient Gestapo.
MCCOY	And my Sickbay is a chamber of horrors. My assistants were betting on the tolerance of an injured man. How long it would take him to pass out from the pain.
KIRK	Report on technology.
SCOTT	Mostly variations in instrumentation. Nothing I can't handle.
KIRK	Star readings?
SCOTT	Everything's exactly where it should be, except us.
KIRK	Let's find out where we stand. Computer.
COMPUTER	Ready.
KIRK	This is the Captain. Record security research, to be classified under my voice print or Mister Scott's.
COMPUTER	Recorded.
KIRK	Produce all data relevant to the recent ion storm. Correlate following hypothesis. Could a storm of such magnitude cause a power surge in the transporter circuits creating a momentary interdimensional contact with a parallel universe?
COMPUTER	Affirmative.
KIRK	At such a moment, could persons in each universe, in the act of beaming, transpose with their counterparts in the other universe?
COMPUTER	Affirmative.
KIRK	Could conditions necessary to such an event be created artificially using the ship's power?
COMPUTER	Affirmative.
KIRK	Record procedure. Scotty, can you do it?
SCOTT	Not by myself. I'll need help. And you'd be too conspicuous.
MCCOY	I'm a doctor, not an engineer.
SCOTT	Now you're an engineer. I'll have to tap the power we need from the warp engines and balance it for the four of us.
MCCOY	Jim, the way this ship is run, what kind of people are we in this universe?
KIRK	Let's find out. Computer.
COMPUTER	Ready.
KIRK	Read out official record of current command.
COMPUTER	Captain James T. Kirk succeeded to command ISS Enterprise through assassination of Captain Christopher Pike. First action, suppression of Gorlan uprising through destruction of rebel home planet. Second action, execution of five thousand colonists on Vega Nine.
KIRK	Cancel. Now we know.
SCOTT	Captain? We can do it.
KIRK	Good.
SCOTT	We have to lay in the automatic transporter setting, but when we interrupt engine circuits to tie the power increase into the transporter, it'll show up on Sulu's security board. Of course, we'll only need a second.
KIRK	I'll tell Uhura to create a diversion to distract Sulu, at your signal. Let's get back to our posts. Keep me advised.
MCCOY	Jim, if we're here, what do you suppose our counterparts doing back in our universe?
KIRK	On our Enterprise.
KIRK	I order you, Let me go! Traitors! Spock, get these men off me! What is this?
MCCOY	What are you doing, Spock?
KIRK	You traitorous pig. I'll hang you up by your Vulcan ears. I'll have you all executed!
SPOCK	I think not. Your authority on this ship is extremely limited, Captain. The four of you will remain her in the Brig and in custody until I discover how to return you to wherever it is you belong.
KIRK	Has the whole galaxy gone crazy? What kind of a uniform is this? Where's your beard? What's going on? Where's my personal guard?
SPOCK	I can answer none of your questions at this time.
KIRK	All right, Spock. Whatever your game is, I'll play it. You want credits, I'll give them to you. You'll be a rich man. A command of your own? I can swing that, too.
SPOCK	Apparently some kind of transposition has taken place. I find it extremely interesting.
KIRK	Spock. What is it that will buy you? Power?
SPOCK	Fascinating.
KIRK	Power, Spock? I can get that for you!
SPOCK	Captain, I am pleased that you frustrated Mister Chekov's plan. I should regret your death.
KIRK	Why?
SPOCK	I do not desire the captaincy. I much prefer my scientific duties. I am frankly content to be a lesser target.
KIRK	Logical, as always, Mister Spock.
SPOCK	The agony booth is a most effective means of discipline. I presume you've ordered full duration.
KIRK	I haven't decided.
SPOCK	Indeed. His act warrants death.
KIRK	I said I haven't decided.
SPOCK	That is, of course, your affair. Captain, may I inquire if you intend to persist in your unusual course of action regarding the Halkans?
KIRK	You heard my orders.
SPOCK	They are, of course, in contradiction to standard Empire procedure. You cannot ignore the consequences.
KIRK	Is that a threat?
SPOCK	I do not threaten, Captain. I merely state facts. I have found you to be an excellent officer. Our missions together have been both successful and profitable. However, I shall not permit your aberrations to jeopardise my position.
KIRK	Spock, do you think we should destroy the Halkans?
SPOCK	Terror must be maintained or the Empire is doomed. It is the logic of history.
KIRK	Conquest is easy, control is not. We may have bitten off more than we can chew.
SPOCK	Captain, I do not wish to find myself opposing you, but if you continue on your present course, this confusing, inexplicable behaviour,
KIRK	Is my concern, not yours. You would find me a formidable enemy.
SPOCK	I'm aware of that, Captain. I trust that you are aware of the reverse.
FARRELL	Orders, sir?
KIRK	Release Chekov. Confine him to quarters.
FARRELL	Yes, sir.
MCCOY	That ought to hold him for about six hours.
MARLENA	I fell asleep. We had quite a time in the chem lab picking up after the storm. Nothing compared to your day, I gather. I heard about Chekov.
KIRK	He gambled, I won.
MARLENA	You got lucky. I'm surprised you could be caught off-guard that way.
KIRK	I was preoccupied.
MARLENA	You're still in trouble with Starfleet Command. What you've got in mind this time is beyond me. You're scheming, of course. The Halkans have something you want, or, is it all some clever means to advance you to the Admiralty? Kirk. The Cabinet itself?
KIRK	Further than that, if I'm successful.
MARLENA	Really? Well, you must know what you're doing. You always do. If I'm to be the woman of a Caesar, can't I know what you're up to?
KIRK	Kirk here.
SPOCK	Mister Spock, Captain.
KIRK	Yes.
SPOCK	I have received a private communication from Starfleet Command. I am committing a breach of regulations by informing you of its contents.
KIRK	Yes, Mister Spock.
SPOCK	I am instructed to wait until planet dawn over principal target to permit you to carry out our mission.
KIRK	And if I don't?
SPOCK	In that event, I am ordered to kill you and to proceed against the Halkans as the new captain of the Enterprise.
KIRK	Captain's log, stardate unknown. We are trapped in a savage, parallel universe from which we must escape within four hours, or I will face a death sentence at Mister Spock's hands.
MARLENA	Let's drink a toast to Spock, The only man aboard with the decency to warn you, and he'll die for it. They'll never find another man like him.
KIRK	I don't intend to kill him.
MARLENA	Are you going to act against the Halkans before the deadline?
KIRK	No, but I'll avoid killing Spock.
MARLENA	Just get him out of the way, he and his men.
KIRK	I'll get out of his way.
MARLENA	Shall I activate the Tantalus field? You'll at least want to monitor him, won't you?
KIRK	Yes.
MARLENA	I hate this thing.
KIRK	It's not that bad.
MARLENA	Of course not. It made you captain. How many enemies have you simply wiped out of existence by the touch of a button? Fifty? A hundred? Now, I always thought that was funny, The great, powerful Captain Kirk who owes everything to some unknown alien scientist and a plundered laboratory.
KIRK	Well, if you don't take advantage of your opportunities
MARLENA	You don't rise to the command of a starship or even higher.
MARLENA	That magnificent mind of his. But it can't protect him from this. I press it and he dies. Now?
MARLENA	You really mean it. It doesn't matter. If Spock fails his order, he'll be killed anyway.
KIRK	I'll see to it that the circumstances of his failure will clear him.
MARLENA	You're not even afraid of Starfleet Command. Can your scheme bring you that much power so quickly? And what about me? How does Marlena fit in?
KIRK	How does Marlena want to fit in?
KIRK	Scotty.
SCOTT	Scotty here, sir.
KIRK	We have to get out of here within three hours. Spock has orders to kill me unless I complete the mission.
SCOTT	We've got another deadline, too, sir.
KIRK	Explain.
SCOTT	The two-way matter transmission affected the local field density between the universes, and it's increasing. We've got to move fast.
KIRK	How fast?
SCOTT	Half hour at the most.
KIRK	If we miss?
SCOTT	We couldn't get out of here in a century. We're ready to bridge power from the engines to the transporter.
SCOTT	You've got to get down there and free the board so we can lock in. Give me about ten minutes.
SCOTT	I've got to complete a few more computations.
KIRK	All right. I'll be in the transporter room in ten minutes. I'll meet you in Sickbay afterward.
SCOTT	Aye, sir.
SPOCK	Computer?
COMPUTER	ready.
SPOCK	Explain computer activity in the engineering section.
COMPUTER	A security research is in progress.
SPOCK	Who is conducting the research?
COMPUTER	The Captain and Mister Scott.
SPOCK	What is the nature of the research?
COMPUTER	Programme is classified under voice index log.
SPOCK	Why are you monitoring my communications, Mister Sulu?
SULU	My security board has detected extensive use of computer, Mister Spock. I was about to inform you.
SULU	It's not hard to guess the nature of your order from Starfleet Command. I suggest a connection. The captain suspects.
SULU	He's working on escape or defence.
SPOCK	That is my concern.
SULU	Correct. It's your play. I hope you succeed, because the order would fall on me next and you know how Captain Kirk's enemies have a habit of disappearing.
SPOCK	If I am successful, you see yourself a step nearer to the captaincy. I do not want to command the Enterprise, but if it should befall me, I suggest you remember that my operatives would avenge my death and some of them are Vulcans.
MARLENA	Oiling my traps, darling. I'm afraid I'm a little out of practice. Maybe that's what happened to us? It's very hard for a working officer to shine as a woman every minute, and you demand perfection.
KIRK	I've never seen perfection, but no woman could come closer to it.
MARLENA	I remember when you used to talk that way.
KIRK	I still do.
MARLENA	Prove it.
KIRK	I've got to go.
MARLENA	Ship's business? An important task on the crew deck? Well, I guess it's over. Commander Kenno will take me temporarily. He's made that quite clear. I'll call a yeoman to help me with my things.
KIRK	You don't have to do that.
MARLENA	Are you feeling sorry for me? Do I see hesitation in your eyes about anything? I want one thing, Captain. Transfer me. On the Enterprise, I am humiliated! On another ship, I can hunt fresh game. I've got my rank, and. Don't I? I've been a captain's woman, and I like it. I'll be one again if I have to go through every officer in the fleet.
KIRK	You could. I simply meant that you could be anything you want to be.
MARLENA	It's been a long time since you've kissed me like that. You're a stranger. Mercy to the Halkans, mercy to Spock, to me. Am I your woman?
KIRK	You're the Captain's woman until he says you're not.
KIRK	Uhura?
UHURA	Yes, Captain.
KIRK	Scotty's signal should be coming through any moment. You know what to do.
UHURA	I've got a pretty good idea, sir.
KIRK	Keep Sulu's attention off that board.
UHURA	I'll do my best, sir.
KIRK	Good luck. Kirk out.
UHURA	You aren't very persistent, Mister Sulu. The game has rules. You're ignoring them. I protest and you come back. You didn't come back.
SULU	Now you're making sense.
UHURA	I was getting bored. Of course this isn't the time.
SULU	Any time's a good time.
UHURA	I'm afraid I changed my mind. Again.
SULU	You take a lot of chances, Lieutenant.
UHURA	So do you, Mister. So do you. Take over for me.
UHURA	Mister Scott, all clear. On my way to Sickbay.
MCCOY	Now it's up to the captain.
SPOCK	Please restrict your movements, Captain.
KIRK	What are you doing? Are you going to shoot me now, Spock? I thought I had until dawn.
SPOCK	I shall make that decision. Since your return from the planet, you've behaved in a most atypical and illogical manner. I want to know why.
KIRK	Shoot. You're wasting time.
SPOCK	I shall not waste time with you. You're too inflexible, too disciplined once you've made up your mind. But Doctor McCoy has a plenitude of human weaknesses, sentimental, soft. You may not tell me what I want to know, but he will.
KIRK	You're running a big risk, Spock.
SPOCK	I have the phaser, Captain, and I do not intend to simply disappear as so many of your opponents have in the past. If you please. Sickbay.
SPOCK	Yes, of course. The entire landing party. Captain, stand over there. Doctor, it is time for answers.
KIRK	How much time, Scotty?
SCOTT	Hardly fifteen minutes, sir. The field density between the two universes is starting to close very fast.
MCCOY	Help me get him on the table. Well, come on. Help me get him on the table. He'll die without immediate treatment.
KIRK	Everything laid in, Scotty? The time lag so the operator can get into the transporter chamber?
SCOTT	All laid in, sir. Come on, McCoy! We're taking a chance of not getting back home.
MCCOY	We'll get home. This won't take long.
SCOTT	Fourteen minutes. We've got to go!
MCCOY	Shut up? I can save his life.
MCCOY	Do you want me to stop, Jim? It'll only take a minute.
KIRK	He is very much like our own Mister Spock, isn't he? You've got that minute.
MCCOY	A little time, he'll live.
KIRK	What is this, Mister Sulu?
SULU	Mister Spock has orders to kill you, Captain. He will succeed, apparently. You will also appear to have killed him after a fierce battle. Regrettable, but it will leave me in command.
SCOTT	Captain, we've barely got ten minutes.
KIRK	Let's go, Bones.
MCCOY	I can't let him die, Jim. You get on to the transporter room. I'll be there in five minutes.
KIRK	No longer.
MCCOY	I guarantee it. Now, go on, please.
SPOCK	Why did the captain let me live?
SPOCK	Our minds are merging, Doctor. Our minds are one. I feel what you feel. I know what you know.
KIRK	A friend. Activate the transporter. You saved us back at Sickbay with the Tantalus field.
MARLENA	Take me with you.
KIRK	I can't. I'm sorry. Our power is balanced for four. There's no guarantee that we'll make it with five. All could die. Scotty?
SCOTT	It's working, sir.
MARLENA	But there are only three of you.
KIRK	One is coming. I'd help you if I could, Marlena. Believe that.
KIRK	If you kill us, you'll still stay.
KIRK	Where's McCoy? Time, Scotty.
SCOTT	Five minutes, sir.
MARLENA	Do you know what they'll do to me?
SCOTT	The power's cut, sir. They're on to us.
KIRK	Auxiliary.
SCOTT	Aye, it's available.
KIRK	Can you bridge to your setup?
SCOTT	I can get us the power, but the automatic setting is linked to the transporter main. If we bypass, that means that someone has got to operate the controls manually.
KIRK	One of us will have to stay.
SCOTT	I'll stay, Captain.
KIRK	Get to the transporter chamber. You, too, Uhura.
SCOTT	Jim.
KIRK	That's an order, Scotty.
SCOTT	Aye, Captain.
MARLENA	What about me?
KIRK	McCoy.
SPOCK	I cut the transporter power. It was necessary to delay your beam-out until I could arrive. Take him.
SPOCK	Engineering, re-activate main transporter circuits.
KIRK	You're a man of integrity in both universes, Mister Spock.
SPOCK	You must return to your universe. I must have my captain back. I shall operate the transporter. You have two minutes and ten seconds.
KIRK	In that time I have something to say. How long before the Halkan prediction of galactic revolt is realised?
SPOCK	Approximately two hundred and forty years.
KIRK	The inevitable outcome?
SPOCK	The Empire shall be overthrown, of course.
KIRK	The illogic of waste, Mister Spock. The waste of lives, potential, resources, time. I submit to you that your Empire is illogical because it cannot endure. I submit that you are illogical to be a willing part of it.
SPOCK	You have one minute and twenty three seconds.
KIRK	If change is inevitable, predictable, beneficial, doesn't logic demand that you be a part of it?
SPOCK	One man cannot summon the future.
KIRK	But one man can change the present. Be the captain of this Enterprise, Mister Spock. Find a logical reason for sparing the Halkans and make it stick. Push till it gives. You can defend yourself better than any man in the fleet.
SCOTT	Captain, get in the chamber!
KIRK	What about it, Spock?
SPOCK	A man must also have the power.
KIRK	In my cabin is a device that will make you invincible.
SPOCK	Indeed?
KIRK	What will it be? Past or future? Tyranny or freedom? It's up to you.
SPOCK	It is time.
KIRK	In every revolution, there's one man with a vision.
SPOCK	Captain Kirk, I shall consider it.
KIRK	Spock.
SPOCK	Welcome home, Captain.
KIRK	What I don't understand is how were you able to identify our counterparts so quickly?
SPOCK	It was far easier for you as civilised men to behave like barbarians, than it was for them to behave like civilised men. I assume they returned to their Enterprise at the same time you appeared here.
KIRK	Probably. However, that Jim Kirk will find a few changes, if I read my Spocks correctly.
MCCOY	Jim, I think I liked him with a beard better. It gave him character. Of course almost any change would be a distinct improvement.
KIRK	What worries me is the easy way his counterpart fitted into that other universe. I always thought Spock was a bit of a pirate at heart.
SPOCK	Indeed, gentlemen. May I point out that I had an opportunity to observe your counterparts here quite closely. They were brutal, savage, unprincipled, uncivilised, treacherous, In every way, splendid examples of homo sapiens, the very flower of humanity. I found them quite refreshing.
KIRK	I'm not sure, but I think we've been insulted.
MCCOY	I'm sure.
MARLENA	Captain Kirk.
KIRK	Lieutenant, er, Lieutenant?
MARLENA	Marlena Moreau. I was just assigned last week.
KIRK	All right, Lieutenant. Carry on.
SPOCK	You've met her before, Captain?
KIRK	Uh, why do you ask?
SPOCK	Your reaction, One of recognition.
KIRK	Oh, no. No, no. We haven't met before, exactly. She just seemed a nice, likable girl. I think we could become friends. It's possible.
