character	line
KIRK	Personal log, stardate 3013.1. I find it hard to believe the events of the past twenty four hours or the plea of Mister Spock standing general court-martial.
MENDEZ	How do you plead to the charge of unlawfully taking command?
SPOCK	Guilty.
MENDEZ	Of sabotaging the computers of this vessel and locking it on a course for planet Talos Four?
SPOCK	Guilty.
MENDEZ	And of forcibly attempting to transport Captain Pike to that planet?
SPOCK	Guilty.
KIRK	Why? Why does Spock want to take to that forbidden world his former captain. Mutilated by a recent space disaster, now a shell of a man, unable to speak or move? The only answer Spock would give was on the hearing-room screen. How Spock could do this he refused to explain, but there before our eyes, actual images from thirteen years ago of Captain Pike as he was when he commanded this vessel, of Spock in those days, and of how the Enterprise had become the first and only starship to visit Talos Four. They had received a distress signal from that planet and discovered there, still alive after many years, the survivors of a missing vessel, only to find it was all an illusion. No survivors, no encampment, it was all a trap set by a race of beings who could make a man believe he was seeing anything they wished him to see, and Captain Pike was gone, a prisoner for some unknown purpose.
KIRK	And the images we've been seeing are
SPOCK	Are coming from Talos Four, sir.
MENDEZ	Mister Spock, you're aware of the orders regarding any contact with Talos Four. You have deliberately invited the death penalty.
KIRK	Do you know what you're doing? Have you lost your mind?
SPOCK	Captain, Jim, please. Don't stop me. Don't let him stop me. It's your career and Captain Pike's life. You must see the rest of the transmission.
KIRK	The court-martial of Mister Spock has been convened in closed session. Despite all we can do, images continue to be transmitted to us from Talos Four.
MENDEZ	Starfleet has ordered no contact with Talos Four. They made no exceptions.
SPOCK	You have no choice, sir. I'm sorry. The Keeper has taken over control of our screen. Do you understand, sir? As you saw before, Captain Pike had been knocked unconscious and captured by the Talosians.
PIKE	Can you hear me? My name is Christopher Pike, commander of the space vehicle Enterprise from a stellar group at the other end of this galaxy. Our intentions are peaceful. Can you understand me?
TALOSIAN	It appears, Magistrate, that the intelligence of the specimen is shockingly limited.
MAGISTRATE	This is no surprise since his vessel was baited here so easily with a simulated message. As you can read in its thoughts, it is only now beginning to suspect that the survivors and encampment were a simple illusion we placed in their minds.
PIKE	You're not speaking, yet I hear you.
MAGISTRATE	You will note the confusion as it reads our thought transmissions.
PIKE	All right, then, telepathy. You can read my mind. I can read yours. Now, unless you want my ship to consider capturing me an unfriendly act
MAGISTRATE	You now see the primitive fear/threat reaction. The specimen is about to boast of his strength, the weaponry of his vessel, and so on. Next, frustrated into a need to display physical prowess, the creature will throw himself against the transparency.
PIKE	If you were in here, wouldn't you test the strength of these walls, too? There's a way out of any cage, and I'll find it.
MAGISTRATE	Despite its frustration, the creature appears more adaptable than our specimens from other planets. We can soon begin the experiment.
SPOCK	The inhabitants of this planet must live deep underground, probably manufacture food and other needs down there. Our tests indicate the planet surface, without considerably more vegetation or some animals, simply too barren to support life.
NUMBER ONE	So we just thought we saw survivors there.
SPOCK	Exactly. An illusion placed in our minds by this planet's inhabitants.
BOYCE	It was a perfect illusion. They had us seeing just what we wanted to see, human beings who'd survived with dignity and bravery, everything entirely logical, right down to the building of the camp, the tattered clothing, everything. Now let's be sure we understand the danger of this. The inhabitants of this planet can read our minds, they can create illusions out of a person's own thoughts, memories, and experiences, even out of a person's own desires. Illusions just as real and solid as this table top and just as impossible to ignore.
TYLER	It's Captain Pike they've got. He needs help.
SPOCK	If we start buzzing about down there, we're liable to find their mental power's so great they could reach out and swat this ship as though it were a fly.
TYLER	Now that entry may have stood up against hand lasers but we can transmit the ship's power against it, enough to blast half a continent.
NUMBER ONE	Engineering deck will rig to transmit ship's power. We'll try blasting through that metal.
TALOSIAN	Thousands of us are already probing the creature's thoughts, Magistrate. We find excellent memory capacity.
MAGISTRATE	I read most strongly a recent death struggle in which it fought to protect its life. We will begin with this, giving the specimen something more interesting to protect.
VINA	Come on, we must hide ourselves. Come, come, hurry. It's deserted. There'll be weapons and perhaps food.
PIKE	This is Rigel Seven.
VINA	Please, we must hide ourselves.
PIKE	I was in a cage, a cell, in some kind of a zoo. I must still be there.
VINA	Come on.
PIKE	They've reached into my mind and taken the memory of somewhere I've been.
VINA	The Kaylar!
PIKE	It's starting just as it happened two weeks ago, except for you.
SPOCK	A brilliant deduction by Captain Pike, gentlemen. Yes, he was still inside his cell, but knowing that couldn't help him.
KIRK	The Talosians controlled his brain.
SPOCK	And could make him live any place, any time, any situation they wished. He would see, taste, suffer with the same reality as you gentlemen sitting there.
PIKE	Longer hair, different dress, but it is you, the one the survivors call Vina. Or rather the image of Vina. But why you again? Why didn't they create a different girl?
VINA	Quick. If you attack while it's not looking.
PIKE	But it's only a dream.
VINA	You have to kill him as you did here before.
PIKE	You can tell my jailers I won't go along with it. I'm not an animal performing for its supper.
VINA	It doesn't matter what you call this, you'll feel it. That's what matters. You'll feel every moment of what happens to you.
VINA	It's over.
MENDEZ	What is it? Why have they stopped the images?
SPOCK	Because they know that Captain Pike is fatigued. We can reconvene later.
KIRK	Then they care about the Captain.
SPOCK	They want him back alive, sir.
MENDEZ	I demand to know why.
SPOCK	If you'll be patient, the answers to your questions
MENDEZ	You're forgetting you're on trial, Spock. You will answer all questions put to you.
SPOCK	My answer to your question would be quite unbelievable, sir. I regret we'll have to wait and see it there.
KIRK	Personal log, stardate 3013.2. Reconvening court-martial of Mister Spock and the strangest trial evidence ever heard aboard a starship. From the mysterious planet now only one hour ahead of us, the story of Captain Pike's imprisonment there.
PIKE	Why are you here?
VINA	To please you.
PIKE	Are you real?
VINA	As real as you wish.
PIKE	No, no. No, that's not an answer. I've never met you before, never even imagined you.
VINA	Perhaps they made me out of dreams you've forgotten.
PIKE	What, and dress you in the same metal fabric they wear?
VINA	I can wear whatever you wish, be anything you wish.
PIKE	So they can see how their specimen performs? They want to see how I react, is that it?
VINA	Don't you have a, a dream, something you've always wanted very badly?
PIKE	Or do they do more than just watch me? Do they feel with me, too?
VINA	You can have whatever dream you want. I can become anything, any woman you, you've ever imagined. You can have anything you want in the whole universe. Let me please you.
PIKE	Yes. Yes, you can please me. You can tell me about them. Is there any way I can keep them from probing my mind, from using my thoughts against me? Does that frighten you? Does that mean there is a way?
VINA	You're a fool.
PIKE	Since you're not real, there's not much point in continuing this conversation, is there?
NUMBER ONE	All circuits engaged, Mister Spock.
SPOCK	Standing by, Number One.
NUMBER ONE	Take cover.
SPOCK	Ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one.
NUMBER ONE	Increase to full power! Can you give us any more?
SPOCK	Our circuits are beginning to heat. We'll have to cease power.
NUMBER ONE	Disengage. The top of that knoll should have been sheared off the first second.
BOYCE	Maybe it was. It's what I tried to explain in the briefing room. Their power of illusion is so great, we can't be sure of anything we do, anything we see.
VINA	Perhaps if you asked me some questions I could answer.
PIKE	How far can they control my mind?
VINA	If I tell you, then will you pick some dream you've had and let me live it with you?
PIKE	Perhaps.
VINA	They can't actually make you do anything you don't want to do.
PIKE	But they try to trick me with their illusions.
VINA	And, er, they can punish you when you're not co-operative. You'll find out about that.
PIKE	Did they ever live on the surface of this planet? Why did they go underground?
VINA	War, thousands of centuries ago.
PIKE	That's why it's so barren up there?
VINA	The planet's only now becoming able to support life again.
PIKE	So the Talosians who came underground found life limited here and they concentrated on developing their mental power.
VINA	But they found it's a trap, like a narcotic, because when dreams become more important than reality, you give up travel, building, creating. You even forget how to repair the machines left behind by your ancestors. You just sit, living and reliving other lives left behind in the thought record.
PIKE	Or sit probing minds of zoo specimens like me.
VINA	You're better than a theatre to them. They create the illusion for you, they watch you react, feel your emotions. They have a whole collection of specimens, descendants of life brought back long ago from all over this part of the galaxy.
PIKE	Which means they had to have more than one of each animal.
VINA	Please.
PIKE	They'll need a pair of humans too. Where do they get intend to get the Earth woman?
VINA	You said that if I answered questions
PIKE	But that was a bargain with something that didn't exist. You said you weren't real, remember?
VINA	I'm a woman as real and as human as you are. We are like Adam and Eve. If we. No, please, no! Don't punish me! I'll die!
MENDEZ	An Earth woman? Then you were captured as breeding stock.
KIRK	Why? Just to maintain a supply of zoo specimens?
SPOCK	Much more, Captain.
KEEPER	The vial contains a nourishing protein complex.
PIKE	Is the keeper actually communicating with one of his animals?
KEEPER	If the form and the colour is not appealing, it can appear as any food you wish to visualise.
PIKE	And if I prefer
KEEPER	To starve? You overlook the unpleasant alternative of punishment.
KEEPER	From a fable you once heard in childhood. You will now consume the nourishment.
PIKE	Why not just put irresistible hunger in my mind? Because you can't, can you? You do have limitations, don't you?
KEEPER	If you continue to disobey, from deeper in your mind, there are things even more unpleasant.
PIKE	That's very interesting.
KEEPER	Now to the female.
PIKE	You were startled. Weren't you reading my mind then?
KEEPER	As you've conjectured, an Earth vessel did crash on our planet, but with only a single survivor.
PIKE	No, let's stay on the first subject. All I wanted for that moment was to get my hands around your neck.
KEEPER	We repaired the survivor's injuries and found the species interesting.
PIKE	Do primitive thoughts put up a block you can't read through?
KEEPER	It became necessary to attract a mate.
PIKE	All right, all right. Let's talk about the girl. You seem to be going out of your way to make her attractive, to make me feel protective.
KEEPER	This is necessary in order to perpetuate the species.
PIKE	Seems more important to you now that I begin to accept her and like her.
KEEPER	We wish our specimens to be happy in their new life.
PIKE	Assuming that's a lie, why would you want me attracted to her? So I'll feel love in a husband-wife relationship? That would be necessary only if you intend to build a family group or perhaps a whole human community.
KEEPER	With the female now properly conditioned.
PIKE	You mean properly punished! I'm the one who's not cooperating! Why don't you punish me?
KEEPER	First, an emotion of protectiveness. Now one of sympathy. Excellent.
VINA	You want some coffee, dear? I left the thermos hooked to my saddle.
PIKE	Tango! You old devil, you. Uh, I'm sorry I don't have any sugar. Well, they think of everything, don't they?
VINA	Is it good to be home?
PIKE	They read our minds very well. Home, anything else I want if I co-operate, is that it?
VINA	My, it turned out to be a lovely day, didn't it? You're home. You can even stay if you want.
PIKE	But we're not here, neither of us. We're in a menagerie, a cage!
VINA	No.
PIKE	I can't help either one of us if you won't give me a chance. Now, you told me once they used illusions as a narcotic. They couldn't repair the machines left by their ancestors. Is that why they want us, to build a colony of slaves?
VINA	Stop it. Don't you care what they'll do to us?
PIKE	Back in my cage, it seemed for a couple of minutes that our keeper couldn't read my thoughts. Do emotions like hate, keeping hate in your mind, does that block off our mind from them?
VINA	Yes. They can't read through primitive emotions, but you can't keep it up for long enough. I've tried. They keep at you and at you year after year, tricking and punishing, and they won. They own me. I know you must hate me for that.
PIKE	Oh, no. I don't hate you. I can guess what it was like.
VINA	But that's not enough. Don't you see? They read my thoughts, my feelings, my dreams of what would be a perfect man. That's why they picked you. I can't help but love you and they expect you to feel the same way.
PIKE	If they can read my mind, then they know I'm attracted to you. I was from the very first moment I saw you in the survivor's camp. You were like a wild little animal.
VINA	I'm beginning to see why none of this has worked for you. You've been home, and fighting as on Rigel. That's not new to you, either. A person's strongest dreams are about what he can't do. Yes, a ship's captain, always having to be so formal, so decent and honest and proper. You must wonder what it would be like to forget all that.
TRADER	Nice place you have here, Mister Pike.
PIKE	Vina?
KIRK	That's Vina again, as the green Orion slave girl?
MENDEZ	They're like animals, vicious, seductive. They say no human male can resist them.
KIRK	Strange evidence from the past, how the Talosians, planning to breed a society of human slaves, tempted Captain Pike with the Earth woman they held in captivity. And as she appeared to him in many forms, each more exciting than the last, Pike was beginning to weaken.
OFFICER	Suppose you had all of space to choose from and this was only one small sample.
TRADER	Wouldn't you say it was worth a man's soul?
NUMBER ONE	Now, you all know the situation. We're hoping to transport down inside the Talosian community.
SPOCK	If our measurements and readings are an illusion also, one could find oneself materialised inside solid rock.
NUMBER ONE	Nothing will be said if any volunteer wants to back out.
SPOCK	The women!
NUMBER ONE	Captain! Captain.
VINA	No! Let me finish!
NUMBER ONE	But we were a party of six.
COLT	We were the only ones transported.
VINA	It's not fair. You don't need them.
PIKE	They don't work.
NUMBER ONE	They were fully charged when we left. It's dead. I can't make a signal. What is it?
PIKE	Don't say anything. I'm filling my mind with a picture of beating their huge, misshapen heads to pulp, thoughts so primitive they black out everything else. I'm filling my mind with hate.
VINA	How long can you block your thoughts? A few minutes, an hour? How can that help?
COLT	Leave him alone.
VINA	He doesn't need you. He's already picked me.
COLT	Picked her? For what? I don't understand.
VINA	Now, there's a fine choice for intelligent offspring.
COLT	Offspring, as in children?
NUMBER ONE	Offspring as in, he's Adam. Is that it?
VINA	You're no better choice. They'd have more luck crossing him with a computer.
NUMBER ONE	Well, shall we do some time computation? There was a Vina listed on that expedition as an adult crewman. Now, adding eighteen years to your age then.
VINA	It's not fair. I did what you asked.
KEEPER	Since you resist the present specimen, you now have a selection.
PIKE	I'll break out of this zoo somehow and get to you. Is your blood red like ours? I'm going to find out.
KEEPER	Each of the two new specimens has qualities in her favour. The female you call Number One has the superior mind and would produce highly intelligent children.
PIKE	All I want to do is get my hands on you. Can you read these thoughts, images of hate, killing?
KEEPER	The other new arrival has considered you unreachable but now is realising this has changed. The factors in her favour are youth and strength, plus unusually strong female drives.
PIKE	You'll find my thoughts more interesting, thoughts so primitive you can't understand. Emotions so
KEEPER	Wrong thinking is punishable. Right thinking will be as quickly rewarded. You will find it an effective combination.
NUMBER ONE	Captain.
PIKE	No. No, don't help me. I have to concentrate. They can't read through hate.
PIKE	Hold still, or I'll break your neck.
VINA	Don't hurt them. They don't mean to be evil.
PIKE	I've had some samples of how good they are.
PIKE	You stop this illusion, or I'll twist your head off. All right, now you try one more illusion, you try anything at all, and I'll break your neck.
KEEPER	Your ship. Release me, or we'll destroy it.
VINA	He's not bluffing, Captain. With illusion they can make your crew work the wrong controls or push any button it takes to destroy your ship.
PIKE	I'm going to gamble you're too intelligent to kill for no reason at all. On the other hand, I've got a reason. I'm willing to bet you've created an illusion this laser is empty. I think it just blasted a hole in that window and you're keep us from seeing it. You want me to test my theory out on your head?
COLT	Captain.
MENDEZ	It seems the Talosians have deserted you.
SPOCK	Gentlemen, a moment, please.
KIRK	Well, Mister Spock?
MENDEZ	May I have your verdict?
SPOCK	Signal you want them to wait. Captain, please. It's your life now, at least a chance for life.
KIRK	You keep talking about life, Mister Spock. A chance for life. How? As a prisoner, caged, a zoo specimen, living the illusions that amuse his keepers?
SPOCK	No, Captain. there's more to it. Watch.
MENDEZ	Guilty, yes or no, Captain? Yes. I must also vote guilty as charged. And you, Captain?
KIRK	Guilty as charged.
HANSEN	Bridge to Commander.
MENDEZ	Mendez here.
HANSEN	Sir, we're entering orbit Talos Four.
SPOCK	Talos controls the vessel now, sir, as they did thirteen years ago. You've asked me why. You'll see the answer now.
PIKE	Make contact, Number One.
NUMBER ONE	They kept us from seeing this, too. We cut through and never knew it. Captain.
KEEPER	As you see, your attempt to escape accomplished nothing.
PIKE	I want to contact our ship.
KEEPER	You are now on the surface where we wished you to be. With the female of your choice, you will now begin carefully guided lives.
PIKE	And start by burying you?
KEEPER	That is your choice. To help you reclaim the planet's surface, our zoological gardens will furnish a variety of plant life.
PIKE	Look, I'll make a deal with you. You and your life for the lives of these two Earth women. You give me proof that our ship is all right, send these two back, and I'll stay with Vina.
NUMBER ONE	It's wrong to create a whole race of humans to live as slaves.
KEEPER	Is this a deception? Do you intend to destroy yourselves?
VINA	What is that?
PIKE	The weapon is building up an overload, a force chamber explosion. You still have time to get underground. Well, go on! Just to show you how primitive humans are, Talosian, you go with her.
VINA	If, if you all think it's this important, then I can't go, either. I suppose if they have one human being, they might try again.
PIKE	Wait.
TALOSIAN	Their method of storing records is crude and consumed much time. Are you prepared to assimilate it?
KEEPER	We had not believed this possible. The customs and history of your race show a unique hatred of captivity. Even when it's pleasant and benevolent, you prefer death. This makes you too violent and dangerous a species for our needs.
VINA	He means that they can't use you. You're free to go back to the ship.
PIKE	And that's it. No apologies. You captured one of us, threatened all of us.
TALOSIAN	Your unsuitability has condemned the Talosian race to eventual death. Is this not sufficient?
KEEPER	No other specimen has shown your adaptability. You were our last hope.
PIKE	But wouldn't some form of trade, mutual cooperation.
KEEPER	Your race would learn our power of illusion and destroy itself, too.
NUMBER ONE	Captain, we have transporter control now.
PIKE	Let's get back to the ship.
VINA	I can't. I can't go with you.
PITCAIRN	Sir, it just came on. We can't shut the power off.
SPOCK	Mister Spock here.
TYLER	All power has come on, Mister Spock. The helm is answering to control.
CREWMAN	The captain.
VINA	You see why I can't go with you.
KEEPER	This is the female's true appearance.
VINA	They found me in the wreckage, dying, a lump of flesh. They rebuilt me. Everything works, but they had never seen a human. They had no guide for putting me back together.
KEEPER	It was necessary to convince you her desire to stay is an honest one.
PIKE	You'll give her back her illusion of beauty?
KEEPER	And more.
PITCAIRN	Mister Spock, the system is coming on again.
COLT	What's happened to Vina?
NUMBER ONE	Isn't she coming with us?
PIKE	No. No, and I agreed with her reasons.
SPOCK	All decks prepare for hyperdrive.
NUMBER ONE	All decks are ready, sir.
PIKE	Engage.
KIRK	Commodore, don't you think that
KEEPER	What you now seem to hear, Captain Kirk, are my thought transmissions. The Commodore was never aboard your vessel. His presence there and in the shuttlecraft was an illusion. Mister Spock had related to us your strength of will. It was thought the fiction of a court-martial would divert you from too soon regaining control of your vessel. Captain Pike is welcome to spend the rest of his life with us, unfettered by his physical body. The decision is yours and his.
KIRK	Mister Spock, even if regulations are explicit, you could have come to me and explained.
SPOCK	Ask you to face the death penalty, too? One of us was enough, Captain.
KIRK	Yes.
UHURA	Message from Starbase Eleven, sir. Received images from Talos Four. In view of historic importance of Captain Pike in space exploration, General Order Seven prohibiting contact Talos Four is suspended this occasion. No action contemplated against Spock. Proceed as you think best. Signed, Mendez, J.I., Commodore, Starbase Eleven.
KIRK	Chris, do you want to go there? Mister Spock, would you care to take Captain Pike to the transporter room, see him off?
SPOCK	Thank you, sir, for both of us.
KIRK	Er, Mister Spock, when you're finished, please come back and see me. I want to talk to you. This regret table tendency you've been showing lately towards flagrant emotionalism
SPOCK	I see no reason to insult me, sir. I believe I've been completely logical about the whole affair.
KEEPER	 Captain Kirk.
KEEPER	Captain Pike has an illusion, and you have reality. May you find your way as pleasant.
