character	line
KIRK	Captain's log. Using the lightspeed breakaway factor, the Enterprise has moved back through time to the twentieth century. We are now in extended orbit around Earth, using our ship's deflector shields to remain unobserved. Our mission, historical research. We are monitoring Earth communications to find out how our planet survived desperate problems in the year 1968.
KIRK	Alert status. Force shields on maximum. Leslie, begin sensor scan.
SPOCK	Transporter room to Captain.
KIRK	Kirk here. What's happening?
SPOCK	It appears we have accidentally intercepted someone's transporter beam, Captain.
SPOCK	It's incredibly powerful.
KIRK	It's impossible. The twentieth century had no such
SPOCK	Captain, something is beaming aboard this vessel.
KIRK	I'll be right there.
SPOCK	The beam is originating at least one thousand light years away.
SCOTT	No transporter beam can reach that far, not even in our century.
KIRK	Something is shaking us apart.
SCOTT	It's locked, it's locked our circuits wide open.
KIRK	You're right. Something is beaming aboard.
SEVEN	Why have you intercepted me?
KIRK	Security.
SECURITY	Security.
KIRK	Transporter room, on the double.
SECURITY	On our way, sir.
SEVEN	Please identify yourselves.
KIRK	This is the United Spaceship Enterprise. I'm Captain Kirk, commanding.
SEVEN	Yes, I heard him, Isis. We're aboard a space vessel. From what planet?
KIRK	Earth.
SEVEN	That's impossible. In this time period, there weren't Humans with a Vulcan? You're from the future, Captain. You're going to have to beam me down to Earth immediately.
KIRK	Phasers on stun.
SEVEN	Careful, Isis. All right. Captain Kirk. My name is Gary Seven. I am a human being from the twentieth century. I was on my way
KIRK	Humans of the twentieth century do not go beaming around the galaxy, Mister Seven.
SEVEN	I've been living on another planet far more advanced. I was beaming to Earth when you intercepted me.
KIRK	The location of that planet?
SEVEN	They wish their existence kept secret. Even in your time, it will remain unknown.
SCOTT	It's impossible to hide a whole planet.
SEVEN	Impossible for you, not for them. Captain Kirk, I am of this time period. You are not. You interfere with me with what I have to do there, and you'll change history. You'll destroy the Earth and probably yourselves, too.
SPOCK	If what he says is true, Captain, every second we delay him could be dangerous.
KIRK	And if he's lying?
SEVEN	This is the most critical period in Earth's history. The planet I'm from wants to help Earth survive.
KIRK	What if it turns out you're an invading alien from the future?
SPOCK	A most difficult decision, Captain.
KIRK	I can't beam you down without further proof one way or the other. Security confinement.
SECURITY	This way, please.
KIRK	Sickbay.
MCCOY	McCoy here.
MCCOY	Jim. Jim! Jim. What's going on there?
MCCOY	Sickbay to transporter room.
MCCOY	Jim, what's going on down there?
KIRK	Bones, check the prisoner you'll find in security confinement. I want a medical analysis fast. Is he or isn't he human?
KIRK	Captain's log, supplemental. A man in a twentieth century business suit. What is he? Not even Spock's Vulcan neck pinch could stop him. Without our phasers, he would have over powered all five of us. I find it difficult to believe the mysterious Mister Seven can be human, and yet, suppose he is?
KIRK	What do you make of the cat, Mister Spock?
SPOCK	Quite a lovely animal, Captain. I find myself strangely drawn to it.
KIRK	This is the captain. All science, engineering, and supervisory personnel, lock into the briefing room. Our next decision can be of enormous consequence, not only to us but to Earth's entire future. You've already been given as much information as we have. Please break in at any time with analysis of that information. Navigation report.
CHEKOV	We have analysed the direction of his beam, sir. Our star maps show no habitable planets in that area of the galaxy.
SPOCK	He did say his planet was hidden, Captain.
KIRK	Engineering.
SCOTT	Still unable to analyze it, sir. It was so powerful, it fused most of our recording circuits. Could have brought him back through great distances, could have brought him back through time. There's no way for us to know.
KIRK	Mister Spock, historical report.
SPOCK	Current Earth crises would fill a tape bank, Captain. There will be an important assassination today, an equally dangerous government coup in Asia, and, this could be highly critical, the launching of an orbital nuclear warhead platform by the United States countering a similar launch by other powers.
KIRK	Weren't orbital nuclear devices one of this era's greatest problems?
SPOCK	Most definitely. Once the sky was full of orbiting H-bombs, the slightest mistake could have brought one down by accident, setting off a nuclear holocaust.
MCCOY	McCoy here.
KIRK	Bones, hurry with that report. Join me in the briefing room with your analysis.
MCCOY	Acknowledged.
SEVEN	You're tired. Go to sleep.
MCCOY	Well, I must admit the sensor readings seem too good. Human readings, yes, but not a single physical flaw. Totally perfect body.
KIRK	If an alien needed a body.
SPOCK	He might be inclined to prepare a perfect one, Captain. But then again he may be telling the truth.
KIRK	Gentlemen, I need proof. All you're telling me is that on the one hand he may be lying and on the other
SECURITY	Security alert. All decks alert. The prisoner has escaped. All decks alert.
KIRK	This is the Captain. Inform us
UHURA	Bridge to Captain, transporter circuits show someone preparing to beam down.
KIRK	Try to override. Shut it off!
SEVEN	I know, Isis. But we'll be gone before they get here.
SEVEN	You're right, Isis. It is primitive. It's incredible that people can exist like this. At least we won't have to. Not for long. Computer on.
COMPUTER	Computer on.
SEVEN	Specify locations of agents two oh one and three four seven.
COMPUTER	Identify self.
SEVEN	Simply check my voice pattern. You'll find me listed as Supervisor one nine four. Code name Gary Seven.
COMPUTER	Voice pattern matches, but I have no listing of a Gary Seven assigned this planet.
SEVEN	Computer, I am a class one supervisor. You are ordered to override previous instructions and answer my questions.
COMPUTER	I am a Beta Five computer capable of analytical decisions. Please confirm identity as supervisor by describing nature of agents and mission here.
SEVEN	Computer, I caution you. I have little love for Beta Five snobbery. Override. All right. Agents are male and female, descendants of human ancestors taken from Earth approximately six thousand years ago. They're the product of generations of training for this mission. Problem. Earth technology and science have progressed faster than political and social knowledge. Purpose of mission. To prevent Earth's civilisation from destroying itself before it can mature into a peaceful society.
COMPUTER	Incomplete but sufficient. Location of agents unreported for three days.
SEVEN	Why didn't you say so in the first place? No, don't answer that. Simply begin search immediately. Recheck all news broadcasts, decode any government intercepted message
COMPUTER	I am aware of proper search procedures, one nine four.
SCOTT	We can estimate only within a thousand metres or so where he beamed down, Captain.
KIRK	If we beam down, can you compare our position with his control setting?
SCOTT	Aye.
SPOCK	Following him down is a major risk, Captain. If we ourselves do anything that changes history
KIRK	I'm aware of that. But I must know if he's lying, and we can't answer that sitting up here. Have ship's stores prepare the proper costumes. Stand by to beam us down.
COMPUTER	In response to nuclear warhead placed in suborbit by other major power, United States today launching suborbital platform with multi-warhead capacity. Purpose, to maintain balance of power.
SEVEN	That's the same kind of nonsense that almost destroyed planet Omicron Four.
COMPUTER	Analysis correct. Earth situation similar. Mission of agents two oh one and three four seven. Set malfunction on United States rocket.
SEVEN	Progress of mission Has the rocket been set to malfunction?
COMPUTER	Negative. No progress.
SEVEN	How much time before launch?
COMPUTER	Exactly one hour, twenty seven minutes, twelve seconds.
SEVEN	Computer, record the following. Unless agents are found immediately, I must undertake their mission.
KIRK	Scotty, lock in on our position.
KIRK	Lead us to him.
SCOTT	Locked in. Proceed one nine five degrees true.
ROBERTA	Hello? Anybody here? Looks like your lucky day, Roberta. They can't dock you if they don't know you're late.
SEVEN	Where have you been?
ROBERTA	Oh, the subway got stalled
SEVEN	Where have you been for the past three days?
ROBERTA	Now, wait a minute. Why should I tell you? Who are you, anyway?
SEVEN	Where's three four seven?
ROBERTA	With three four eight?
SEVEN	Two oh one, code responses are not necessary.
ROBERTA	Listen, friend, maybe I'd just better call the police right now.
SEVEN	Sit down.
ROBERTA	Who do you think you are?
SEVEN	I said sit down.
ROBERTA	Okay, I will.
SEVEN	I'll say one thing for you. You play your role well. But that is no longer necessary. I'm Supervisor one nine four, code name Gary Seven. I need a complete report
ROBERTA	Report.
SEVEN	Yes, report. Everything you have done for the past three Earth days.
ROBERTA	Oh. Everything I've done?
SEVEN	Everything you've done.
ROBERTA	Well, okay. Well, let's see.
SEVEN	Not with your fingers.
ROBERTA	Well, how do you expect me to type, with my nose? Did you see that? The machine typed everything I. It's typing everything I'm saying! Stop it. Stop it! Stop it! Okay. That does it. I quit!
SEVEN	Wait a minute.
ROBERTA	I'm quitting right now!
SEVEN	You're not acting, are you?
ROBERTA	Acting? I'm leaving. Goodbye. Hey. Hey!
SEVEN	Tie in to computer.
COMPUTER	Computer on.
SEVEN	Scan unidentified female present.
COMPUTER	Roberta Lincoln. Human. Profession, secretary. Employed by three four seven and two oh one. Description. Age twenty, five feet seven inches, one hundred twenty pounds, hair presently tinted honey blonde. Although behaviour appears erratic, possesses high IQ. Birthmarks
ROBERTA	Hey.
COMPUTER	Small mole on left shoulder. Somewhat larger star-shaped mark on her
ROBERTA	Hey, watch it! Okay, I'll bite. What is it?
SEVEN	Miss Lincoln. Miss Lincoln, What kind of work did your employers say they were doing here?
ROBERTA	Research for a new encyclopaedia? No? No.
SEVEN	All right. You can go. Of course, if you do, you won't be helping your country. Unless you don't care about that.
ROBERTA	Sure, I care. What do you think I am?
SEVEN	I don't know, Miss Lincoln, what you are, not yet. All I know is that my incompetence has made you aware of very secret devices that are vital to the security of this nation.
ROBERTA	Oh. Well, what are you guys around here, anyway? FBI? Some kind of government agents, huh? CIA. Very groovy.
SEVEN	Thank you, Isis. I'll be right in. It's a trained cat, Just like guard dogs, that kind of thing.
ROBERTA	Yeah?
SEVEN	Don't let anybody in here. I'll be busy.
ROBERTA	Okay.
KIRK	Scotty,
KIRK	Triangulate on this location.
SCOTT	Correlated. Readings indicate a greater altitude. Approximately thirty metres higher, sir.
KIRK	Out.
COMPUTER	Occurrence, automobile accident. Location Highway nine four nine, ten miles north of McKinley Rocket Base. Agents three four seven and two oh one were killed instantly.
SEVEN	That just doesn't make sense. For them to die in something as useless as an automobile accident. Are the facts verified?
COMPUTER	Verified. Descriptions of bodies are exact.
KIRK	Go ahead, Scotty.
SCOTT	Proceed five metres, two four seven degrees true.
SEVEN	Computer off.
KIRK	Where's Mister Seven?
ROBERTA	I don't know what you're talking about. Listen, you guys can't come in here.
KIRK	Where's Mister Seven?
ROBERTA	You can't come in here. Now, get out. What do you think you're doing? This is a government office.
ROBERTA	Neither one of you can come in here.
KIRK	Where's Mister Seven?
ROBERTA	This is against the rules.
SPOCK	In here, Captain.
ROBERTA	What do you think you're doing? You want me to Send the police. Eight Eleven East Sixty Eighth Street, apartment twelve B.
KIRK	Give me the phone.
ROBERTA	No, get your hands off of me, you big jerk! Who do you think you are? Let go!
ROBERTA	What do you think you're doing, you big jerk? What's the big idea?
ROBERTA	Mister Seven, help! Help!
ROBERTA	Let go of me! Stop it! Don't go in there! What's the big idea? Get your hands off of me! I mean it! What are you?
TANNOY	Attention. Stand by for launch area clearance. It is now sixty minutes to launch. T minus sixty and counting.
KIRK	Where's Mister Seven?
ROBERTA	I'm warning you, I've already called the police.
KIRK	Plans to McKinley Rocket Base.
POLICE	There it is, Charlie. Open up in there. Police.
POLICE	Open up in there! It's the police!
KIRK	Wide scan, Scotty. We'll be moving. Spock, in here. Spock!
ROBERTA	In there!
KIRK	Now, Scotty!
POLICE	What's going on here?
KIRK	Reverse and energise.
POLICE	Charlie.
TANNOY	Attention. It is now fifty minutes to launch. T minus fifty and counting. All systems clear. All systems clear. Standing by for inspection of launch pad.
LIPTON	You! Speak to you a moment?
SEVEN	Yeah, sure, Sarge. There it is.
LIPTON	I'll have to confirm this, Colonel.
SEVEN	All right.
LIPTON	Just put the cat down and keep your hands at your side.
SEVEN	All right.
LIPTON	Give me security. Identification check.
SEVEN	Be careful, lsis. Don't get stepped on.
LIPTON	Yes, security?
SEVEN	Security, this is Sergeant Lipton, and we're all straightened out down here. Right, thank you very much. Goodbye. All right, Sergeant. Now let's just turn right around. We're going to walk this way. You just sit right down right right there and have a little nap.
TANNOY	Attention. It is now forty five minutes to launch. T minus forty five and counting. All systems clear. All systems clear.
TANNOY	Standby for inspection of launch pad.
CROMWELL	Heading for the gantry. Sound alert.
TANNOY	Attention. First alert. First alert. Begin clearing gantry area. Clear launch pad. Safety group, clear launch pad. All systems continue to green. Repeat. All systems still green. Standing by for inspection of launch pad.
SCOTT	There's an old-style weather satellite in orbit below us. If I could bounce off it, I could get some good views. I've got it.
SCOTT	I could get even closer. If I could spot him, I could lock on and beam him up.
SPOCK	Chances are he's out of sight inside the rocket gantry or at one of the control centres.
KIRK	Launch is in forty minutes. Stand by to beam us down. Continue visual scan.
TANNOY	Attention. Stand by for launch area clearance. Range safety verified. Launch director now en route to rocket gantry to confirm launch pad clear. Ground stations three, four and eleven, stand by for confirmation. Repeat. Standby for launch area clearance.
CROMWELL	Hi, Jack.
NESVIG	Mister Cromwell.
CROMWELL	Launch director at gantry, beginning final check.
TANNOY	Attention. It is now thirty five minutes to launch. T minus thirty five minutes and counting.
TANNOY	Canary Islands confirming they are go for the launch. All ground stations confirm go.
NESVIG	Lock the elevator at the top, Lieutenant. Time to get out of here.
TANNOY	Attention. Clear launch pad. Repeat. Clear launch pad and gantry.
LIPTON	Freeze! One move and you've both had it.
SECURITY	Intruder alert. Intruder alert. Security to launch director. We have unidentified intruders. Males. A pair. Do you want to delay countdown?
ROBERTA	All right, don't answer, but you can tell him I quit. You can tell him I promise not to tell anybody anything. He's safe, and you're safe, my little green friend. Same to you.
TANNOY	Attention. Twenty minutes to launch. T minus twenty minutes and counting. All systems continue green. Repeat. All systems still green.
SEVEN	Yes, thank you. I know how to open it. I know there's not much time.
NESVIG	These are all they were carrying.
TANNOY	T minus fifteen minutes and counting.
NESVIG	You've got a chance, and I'll offer it only this once. The slightest possible charges will be brought against you if you identify yourselves and tell us why you're here.
TANNOY	To delay countdown.
CROMWELL	No sign of trouble on my boards. Launch director, confirm status all systems.
TANNOY	Control to launch director, confirming. Status board indicates all is well. Space flight conditions measure out as planned.
CROMWELL	Continue countdown.
TANNOY	No countdown delay. Repeat, no delay. All systems are green and go. All systems are go.
TANNOY	T minus fourteen and counting.
SEVEN	Meow? You are nervous, aren't you, doll? All right. I'm going as fast as I can.
TANNOY	T minus thirteen minutes and counting. Status board looks good. Stages look good. All systems go. Status board says go.
SCOTT	Security, send two men up here right away.
TANNOY	T minus eight minutes and counting. All systems go. Status board go.
ROBERTA	No!
SCOTT	Stand by. I'm going to beam him up.
SCOTT	I had him and something yanked him away.
SEVEN	What are you doing? I wasn't finished.
ROBERTA	I'm sorry. I just touched that button right there and then wow!
SEVEN	You must have intercepted the Enterprise trying to beam me on board. Computer on.
SEVEN	Lock into launch site scan.
COMPUTER	One minute to launch.
ROBERTA	Oh, my gosh!
KIRK	Captain's log, supplemental. Spock and I in custody. Even if we talked, they wouldn't believe us. We're powerless to stop Mister Seven or prevent the launch, or even be certain if we should. I have never felt so helpless.
COMPUTER	Thirty seconds to launch.
ROBERTA	Look, hey, I mean, not even the CIA could do all this.
TANNOY	T minus twenty seconds. Mark. Stages reporting ready for launch. Automatic sequences on. She's completely automatic now.
COMPUTER	Fifteen seconds to launch. Ten seconds.
TANNOY	Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Ignition. We have ignition.
TANNOY	Altitude one thousand feet. All good. All as planned. Trajectory nominal.
COMPUTER	Rocket passing twenty mile arc and accelerating.
SEVEN	Computer, adjustments at the rocket base were not completed. Can I still take over the rocket as planned?
COMPUTER	Rocket control possible with exceiver circuits operated manually.
SEVEN	Exceiver on manual. Lock into flight telemetry. Visual off.
SEVEN	Roberta, please don't try to leave. You'll find all the doors locked. Are you jealous, Isis? It's most unbecoming.
COMPUTER	Rocket altitude now one hundred miles. Standing by to begin malfunction as planned.
SEVEN	Begin malfunction at third stage.
COMPUTER	Exceiver setting now nine zero point zero eight.
SEVEN	Nine zero point zero eight.
COMPUTER	Second stage ready to detach.
SEVEN	Visual on.
COMPUTER	Second stage detaching.
COMPUTER	Third stage igniting.
SEVEN	Begin malfunction. Take it off course.
COMPUTER	Malfunction setting correct. Rocket veering from planned course.
CROMWELL	Give me the readings fast.
NESVIG	What is it?
CROMWELL	Malfunction. Rocket is deviating from programmed flight path.
TANNOY	Safety, standby to destruct. Continuing deviation from flight path. Repeat, deviation confirmed and increasing. Telemetry control transmitter systems tie in. All systems tie in. Report.
SEVEN	Arm the warhead.
COMPUTER	Accomplished. Nuclear warhead now armed. Set exceiver nine one point two one eight.
SEVEN	Exceiver nine one point two one eight.
SCOTT	Scott here.
CHEKOV	Sensor shows that the rocket has armed itself, Mister Scott.
SULU	Computers indicate an impact somewhere in the heart of the Euro-Asian continent.
CHEKOV	We've still time to enter close orbit and destroy it with our phaser, sir.
UHURA	They're beginning to worry on Earth, Mister Scott.
UHURA	I'm getting military alerts from the major powers.
SCOTT	I've got to risk calling the captain. Lieutenant Uhura, open a channel.
UHURA	Aye, aye.
TANNOY	Warhead status confirmed. She's armed herself somehow. Repeat. This bird is armed. The warhead's alive. All boards report status. Stand by on destruct. Standby to transmit destruct signal.
NESVIG	How could the warhead arm itself?
CROMWELL	We don't know.
NESVIG	You can destroy it, of course.
CROMWELL	If we can't, we're going to lay an H bomb on somebody somewhere. Ready on destruct signal. Destruct.
TANNOY	Transmit destruct signal. Transmit destruct signal.
LIPTON	Get back over there.
ROBERTA	Look, I'm sorry, but like you asked me, I do care about my country, and you can't be CIA.
COMPUTER	Orbital platform separating.
ROBERTA	Hold it!
SEVEN	Computer, rocket status.
ROBERTA	Hold it, Mister Seven. I'm telling you, you're through monkeying around with my country's rocket.
COMPUTER	Warhead still armed. Six minutes to impact.
ROBERTA	Hold it! Don't move! You did enough already!
SEVEN	You've got to let me finish what I started, or in six minutes World War Three begins.
COMPUTER	Flight path continuing on target.
TANNOY	Destruct is fouled up somehow, flight control. She's coming down fully armed. She'll go off on impact.
CROMWELL	What? Try again! Boost the signal!
TANNOY	Boosting signal. Boosting signal. Flight control, we have boosted destruct signal. Repeat. Destruct signal at maximum boost.
SCOTT	Captain, can you read me? I was beaming up Mister Seven, and something yanked him away from me.
LIPTON	Hello? Hello, come in.
SPOCK	Here, let me help you, Sergeant. It's operated with this dial here.
TANNOY	We're getting no response.
CROMWELL	Make absolutely certain. Check everything again.
TANNOY	Tracking stations report no response on destruct signal.
KIRK	Scotty, beam us directly to Seven's apartment.
TANNOY	Auxiliary transmitters check out flight control. She hasn't destructed herself. Repeat. Destruct is not working. She's still up there. Do you read? Descending and armed. Descending and armed. She'll go off on impact. Bermuda ground station reports she's still up there. South Africa ground station reports no response on boosted destruct signal.
CROMWELL	Get me the president.
COMPUTER	Rocket descending and accelerating. Do you have further instructions, one nine four?
SEVEN	Roberta, you've got to believe me. Look, a truly advanced planet wouldn't use force. They wouldn't come here in strange alien forms. The best of all possible methods would be to take human beings to their world, train them for generations until they're needed here.
ROBERTA	Mister Seven, I want to believe you. I do. I know this world needs help. That's why some of my generation are kind of crazy and rebels, you know. We wonder if we're going to be alive when we're thirty.
COMPUTER	Two minutes to impact.
KIRK	Hold it right there, Mister Seven.
ROBERTA	Oh, no.
KIRK	Spock, you're the expert. Can you detonate the warhead from this computer?
SPOCK	I can try, Captain.
COMPUTER	Altitude five hundred fifty miles.
SEVEN	Captain, I want that warhead detonated, too. Unless I do it at least a hundred miles above ground, just barely in time to frighten them out of this arms race
SCOTT	Captain, monitors show all major powers on full missile alert. Retaliatory strike ordered on warhead impact.
COMPUTER	Altitude four hundred and fifty miles.
KIRK	Spock.
SPOCK	I can estimate some of this, Captain, but without more time
SEVEN	Captain, he can only guess. Will you please let me do my job.
KIRK	I don't know what your job is! You may set those controls so we can't detonate that warhead.
ROBERTA	Listen you, get away from him.
SEVEN	Roberta, be careful. The servo is set to kill.
COMPUTER	Altitude four hundred miles.
SEVEN	There are only seconds. I'll need time to set it.
ROBERTA	Please. He's telling the truth.
COMPUTER	Fifty five seconds to impact.
KIRK	Spock, if you can't handle it, I'm going to have to trust him.
SPOCK	It is difficult to know which is best, Captain.
COMPUTER	Forty seconds to impact.
SPOCK	Without facts, the decision cannot be made logically. You must rely on your human intuition.
COMPUTER	Altitude three hundred miles. Descending and accelerating.
KIRK	Go.
COMPUTER	Thirty seconds and accelerating.
SEVEN	Computer, go to visual. Count by tens.
COMPUTER	One hundred ninety miles. One hundred eighty miles. One hundred seventy miles. One hundred sixty miles. One hundred fifty, one hundred forty, one hundred thirty, one hundred twenty. Detonation one hundred four miles.
SEVEN	And in spite of the accidental interference with history by the Earth ship from the future, the mission was completed.
SPOCK	Correction, Mister Seven. It appears we did not interfere. The Enterprise was part of what was supposed to happen on this day in 1968.
KIRK	Our record tapes show, although not generally revealed, that on this date, a malfunctioning suborbital warhead was exploded exactly one hundred and four miles above the Earth.
SEVEN	So everything happened the way it was supposed to.
SPOCK	And you'll be pleased our records show that it resulted in a new and stronger international agreement against the use of such weapons.
ROBERTA	Would you mind telling me who that is?
SEVEN	That, Miss Lincoln, is simply my cat.
ROBERTA	Your cat?
SEVEN	What else do your record tapes show?
KIRK	I'm afraid we can't reveal everything we know, Mister Seven.
SPOCK	Captain, we could say that Mister Seven and Miss Lincoln have some interesting experiences in store for them.
KIRK	Yes, I think we could say that. Two to beam up, Scotty.
SPOCK	Live long and prosper, Mister Seven.
KIRK	And the same to you, Miss Lincoln. Energise.
