character	line
KIRK	You'll enjoy Commodore Travers. He sets a good table.
MCCOY	I wonder if he brought his personal chef along with him to Cestus Three.
KIRK	Probably. Rank hath its privileges.
MCCOY	How well we both know that.
KIRK	Scotty. Kirk here.
TRAVERS	Travers, Jim. We're waiting.
KIRK	Good, Commodore. We're on our way.
TRAVERS	Be sure to bring along your tactical people. I've got an interesting problem for them.
KIRK	We'll beam down immediately, Commodore. Kirk out.
SPOCK	Captain. I wonder why he's insistent that our tactical aides come down.
KIRK	This colony is isolated, exposed, out on the edge of now here. He probably wants additional advice.
SPOCK	Perhaps, Captain, but nevertheless
MCCOY	Spock, isn't it enough the commodore is famous for his hospitality? I, for one, could use a good non-reconstituted meal.
SPOCK	Doctor, you are a sensualist.
MCCOY	You bet your pointed ears I am. Ready whenever you are, Captain.
KIRK	Energise.
KIRK	Kirk to Enterprise. Red alert.
SULU	What is it, Captain?
KIRK	Cestus Three has been destroyed.
KIRK	Full alert. Tricorder readings, Mister Spock. Life detection.
SPOCK	Those messages we got, Captain, the one directing us here yesterday.
KIRK	Faked. All this happened several days ago. Lang, over there. Look for survivors. Kelowitz, that way. O'Herlihy, stick with me.
SPOCK	Captain, impulses that direction. Very weak, possibly a survivor.
KIRK	Come on, Bones.
KIRK	Captain's log, Stardate 3045.6 The Enterprise has responded to a call from Earth observation outpost on Cestus Three. On landing, we have discovered that the outpost has been destroyed.
MCCOY	Captain, over there. Careful, careful. Shock, radiation burns, internal injuries for certain.
MCCOY	Careful, careful. Shock, radiation burns, internal injuries for certain. He's in a bad way, Captain.
KIRK	Keep him alive, Bones. I want to know what's been happening here.
SPOCK	Getting another life reading, Captain.
KIRK	Survivors?
SPOCK	Not survivors. Not warm-blooded. Living creatures, but not human.
KIRK	Where?
SPOCK	Azimuth ninety three degrees, range one five seven zero yards.
KIRK	O'Herlihy.
O'HERLIHY	Captain, I see something.
KIRK	Cover! Kirk to Enterprise, lock on transporters. Beam us up.
SULU	Captain, we're coming under attack. Unidentified ship quartering in.
SULU	We can't beam you up. I've just rigged up defensive screens.
KIRK	Keep those screens up. Fire all phasers.
SULU	Firing phasers, Captain. The alien has screens up, too.
KIRK	Take all action necessary to protect the ship. We'll hold out here.
SULU	Are you under attack, Captain?
SULU	We could drop screens.
KIRK	Keep those screens up. Worry about us when the ship is safe.
KIRK	Kirk out.
KIRK	If they lower those screens to beam us up, they'll be open to phaser attack.
SPOCK	We're hopelessly outnumbered here, Captain. It's those disruptors versus our hand phasers.
KIRK	We're stuck with it, Mister Spock. We'll have to make do with what we've got.
KIRK	Kelowitz, Lang, flank out. Lay down fire on co-ordinates Mister Spock gave you. Even if you don't see them. Keep your heads down.
KIRK	We're helpless down here. And the Enterprise
SPOCK	Sulu is an experienced combat officer.
KIRK	It's my ship, Mister Spock. I should be there. We can't even get at them.
SPOCK	Nor can they at us at the moment. Not unless they moved their original position. That intervening high ground.
KIRK	Can you remember the layout of this place? The arsenal?
SPOCK	About one hundred yards in that direction. But after an attack as thorough as this one
KIRK	I'll risk it.
KIRK	Kirk here. Report.
SULU	Captain, are you all right?
KIRK	Never mind about me. What about the ship?
SULU	We returned fire with all phaser banks. Negative against its deflector screen.
KIRK	Arm your photon torpedoes.
SULU	Aye, aye, sir. Arm photon torpedoes. Stand by.
KIRK	Any identification on the attacking vessel?
SULU	No, sir. Doesn't correspond with any configuration we're familiar with.
SULU	We can't get visual contact. She's too far away.
DEPAUL	Mister Sulu, photon torpedoes locked on.
SULU	Photon torpedoes locked on, Captain.
KIRK	Fire all banks.
SULU	All banks fired, sir.
KIRK	Sulu. Sulu, our communications are being interfered with. Now get this straight.
KIRK	You do anything you think necessary to protect the ship. Leave orbit, maximum warp, anything. Clear?
SULU	Clear, Captain, but you
KIRK	Never mind about me. Protect my ship!
SULU	Yes, sir. Photon torpedoes negative, Captain. I'm warping out of orbit.
KIRK	Good. Contact me when you can. Kirk out.
SPOCK	How is he, Doctor?
MCCOY	He'll be dead in half an hour if we don't get him some decent care.
SPOCK	They're moving. I've got to get to the Captain.
SPOCK	Locked on to the enemy, Captain. They're moving toward the high ground. They've locked on to my tricorder.
SPOCK	Very ingenious. They fed back my own impulses and built up an overload.
KIRK	We'll see how ingenious they are. Here, give me a hand with this grenade launcher. Lang!
SPOCK	Any word from the Enterprise?
KIRK	Sulu's taken her out of orbit.
KELOWITZ	They got Lang, sir.
KIRK	Did you see them?
KELOWITZ	No, sir.
KIRK	An evaluation, Mister Kelowitz. Where do you think they are?
KELOWITZ	If I were them, I'd go to the high ground on the right. I make it twelve hundred yards, azimuth eighty seven. It's pretty close for one of these little jewels, Captain.
KIRK	It'll be a lot closer to them. Stand clear.
KIRK	Kirk here.
SULU	Captain, the alien's withdrawing. She's at extreme range, but our sensors indicate she just activated her transporters.
KIRK	Lock on to the alien, Mister Sulu. I don't want to lose her.
SULU	Aye, aye, sir. Our screens are down. We can beam you up now, sir.
KIRK	I want a search party of thirty medical personnel beamed down immediately to search for survivors. Notify the transporter room. Lock onto us. We're beaming up.
SULU	Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK	Captain's log, supplement. We have beamed back to the Enterprise and immediately set out in pursuit of the alien vessel. It appears to be headed toward a largely unexplored section of the galaxy.
KIRK	Can you tell me what happened?
MAN	Scanners reported a ship approaching. We get them now and then. They're all welcome to use our facilities. You know that.
KIRK	Yes, I know.
MAN	They came in space normal speed, using our regular approach route, but they knocked out our phaser batteries with their first salvo. From then on we were helpless. We weren't expecting anything! Why should we? We didn't have anything anyone would want.
KIRK	Easy. Easy.
MAN	They poured it on, like, like phasers, only worse, whatever they were using. I tried to signal them. We called up. Tried to surrender. We had women and children. I told them that! I begged them! They wouldn't listen. They didn't let up for a moment.
KIRK	Lieutenant, the Enterprise received two messages, ostensibly from Cestus Three. One for the Enterprise to go there, and the other for myself and my tactical crew to beam down to the surface.
MAN	They hit us a full day before you got there, Captain. No messages came from us, Captain. Why did they do it? Why? Why did they do it? There has to be a reason. There has to be a reason!
KIRK	It was a trap. Getting the Enterprise to come to Cestus Three, getting us and our whole crew to come ashore.
SPOCK	Very clever. As to the reason?
KIRK	The reason is crystal clear. The Enterprise is the only protection in this section of the Federation. Destroy the Enterprise, and everything is wide open.
SPOCK	You allude to invasion, Captain, yet positive proof
KIRK	I have all the proof I need on Cestus Three.
SPOCK	Not necessarily, sir. Several possible explanations
KIRK	How can you explain a massacre like that? No, Mister Spock. The threat is clear and immediate. Invasion.
SPOCK	Very well, then. If that's the case, you must make certain that the alien vessel never reaches its home base.
KIRK	I intend to. If we can keep them in the dark as to our strength, they'll never dare move against us. Captain to helmsman.
SULU	Sulu here, sir.
KIRK	Is the alien still making warp five?
SULU	Affirmative, sir.
KIRK	Initiate warp six.
SULU	Affirmative, sir.
KIRK	Overtake. Phaser banks, lock on to the enemy vessel. Stand by for firing orders. All hands, this is the Captain. We are going into battle. All hands, battle stations. Red alert. I repeat, red alert. This is no drill. This is no drill.
KIRK	Captain's log, Stardate 3046.2. We are in hot pursuit of the alien vessel which destroyed the Earth outpost on Cestus Three.
KIRK	Mister DePaul.
DEPAUL	Yes, sir.
KIRK	Position.
DEPAUL	Twenty two point three parsecs beyond latest chart limit, sir.
KIRK	All scanners lock into computer banks. I want a complete record of this. Mister Spock, what do we have on this general area?
SPOCK	Virtually nothing, Captain. No records of any explorations. There are rumours of certain strange signals on subspace channels. However, none has ever been recorded.
KIRK	Anything on intelligent life forms?
SPOCK	Nothing specific, Captain. Unscientific rumours only. More like space legends.
KIRK	Mister Sulu, status, alien vessel.
SULU	They must be aware we're after them, sir. They've gone to warp six also.
KIRK	Warp factor seven.
SULU	Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK	Something the matter, Mister Spock?
SPOCK	A sustained warp seven speed will be dangerous, Captain.
KIRK	Thank you, Mister Spock. I mean to catch them.
SCOTT	We'll either catch them or blow up, Captain. They may be faster than we are.
KIRK	They'll have to prove it. Yes, Mister Spock?
SPOCK	You mean to destroy the alien ship, Captain?
KIRK	Of course.
SPOCK	I thought perhaps the hot pursuit alone might be sufficient. Destruction might be unnecessary.
KIRK	Colony Cestus Three has been obliterated, Mister Spock.
SPOCK	The destruction of the alien vessel will not help that colony, Jim.
KIRK	If the aliens go unpunished, they'll be back, attacking other Federation installations.
SPOCK	I merely suggested that a regard for sentient life
KIRK	There's no time for that. It's a matter of policy. Out here, we're the only policemen around. And a crime has been committed. Do I make myself clear?
SPOCK	Very clear, Captain.
KIRK	I'm delighted, Mister Spock. Report, Mister Sulu.
SULU	Alien ship maintaining interval, Captain. Now at warp seven.
KIRK	Warp factor eight.
SULU	Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK	Captain to phaser banks. All components at battle ready. All banks primed.
CREWMAN	Aft phaser to Bridge. Alert status. All weapons at operational ready.
SULU	Captain.
KIRK	Yes, Mister Sulu.
SULU	Closing on target, sir.
KIRK	Good. Mister DePaul.
DEPAUL	Yes, sir.
KIRK	Our position.
DEPAUL	Two two seven nine pl, sir. Uncharted solar system at two four six six pm.
KIRK	Is it on the alien's course?
DEPAUL	No, sir. He's headed away from it.
UHURA	Captain, sensors report we're being scanned.
KIRK	By the alien ship?
UHURA	No, sir. It's from that solar system ahead.
KIRK	Any interference? Resistance?
UHURA	No, sir, Just scanning beams. It's on an unusual wave length.
KIRK	Mister Spock?
SPOCK	It would appear someone is curious about us.
KIRK	Mister Sulu, is the alien still heading away from that solar system?
SULU	Yes, sir. We're closing, sir.
KIRK	Lieutenant Uhura, anything further on those scanning beams?
UHURA	There's no hostility, sir. They're not tractors or weapons of any sort, Just increasing in intensity. Steady. Regular. It's growing stronger, sir.
SULU	Captain!
KIRK	Yes, what is it?
SULU	The alien. It's slowing down. Warp five, four, two. It's going sublight, sir. Sir? It's stopped dead in space.
KIRK	He may be turning to fight.
SULU	No, sir. They're just dead out there.
KIRK	Are you sure?
SULU	Yes, sir. Unmoving.
KIRK	Then we've got them. Go to Red Alert. Prepare to fire phaser banks. Sensors, lock on. Mister Sulu, continue closing. Mister Spock, lock phasers into computer. Computers will control attack.
SPOCK	Computer lock ready, Captain. All systems standing by.
SULU	Range is one eight one zero. One seven six zero. Range is one seven zero zero. One six four zero. Range is one five nine zero. One five five zero and closing, sir.
SULU	Warp six, warp five, four, warp three, warp one. Sublight, Captain. We're stuck, Captain. It's impossible, but. It's impossible.
KIRK	From warp eight? Have you lost your mind?
SPOCK	Same as the alien, Captain.
KIRK	Mister Scott, report.
SCOTT	We're dead, Captain. Locked up. Frozen tight. All propulsion systems read zero.
KIRK	Life systems?
SCOTT	They're all normal, sir. Atmosphere, heat, light. No variance.
KIRK	Phaser banks. Report.
CREWMAN	We're all inoperative here, Captain. No power at all. No faulty circuits I can find. Just no power.
KIRK	Damage Control, report.
SPOCK	All systems report normal, Captain. No ascertainable damage.
KIRK	Then what is it?
SCOTT	I don't know, sir, but whatever it is, we canna move.
SPOCK	We're being held in place, Captain, apparently from that solar system.
KIRK	This far out? That's impossible.
SPOCK	We are being held.
KIRK	Tractor beam?
SPOCK	No, sir. An unidentifiable power.
METRON	We are the Metrons. You are one of two crafts which have come into our space on a mission of violence. This is not permissible. Yet we have analysed you and have learned that your violent tendencies are inherent. So be it. We will control them. We will resolve your conflict in the way most suited to your limited mentalities. Captain James Kirk.
KIRK	This is Kirk.
METRON	We have prepared a planet with a suitable atmosphere. You will be taken there, as will the Captain of the Gorn ship which you have been pursuing. There you will settle your dispute.
KIRK	I don't understand.
METRON	:You will be provided with a recording-translating device, in hopes that a chronicle of this contest will serve to dissuade others of your kind from entering our system, but you will not be permitted to communicate with your ship. You will each be totally alone.
KIRK	What makes you think you can interfere with
METRON	It is you who are interfering. We are simply putting a stop to it. The place we have prepared for you contains sufficient elements for either of you to construct weapons lethal enough to destroy the other, which seems to be your intention. The winner of the contest will be permitted to go his way unharmed. The loser, along with his ship, shall be destroyed in the interests of peace. The contest will be one of ingenuity against ingenuity, brute strength against brute strength. The results will be final.
KIRK	Just a minute
METRON	There will be no discussion. It is done.
SULU	He's gone.
KIRK	The Enterprise is dead in space, stopped cold during her pursuit of an alien raider by mysterious forces, and I have been somehow whisked off the bridge and placed on the surface of an asteroid, facing the Captain of the alien ship. Weaponless, I face the creature the Metrons called a Gorn. Large, reptilian. Like most humans, I seem to have an instinctive revulsion to reptiles. I must fight to remember that this is an intelligent, highly advanced individual, the Captain of a starship, like myself, undoubtedly a dangerously clever opponent.
SPOCK	Have you tried overload?
SCOTT	Aye, sir. It does no good.
SPOCK	How about bypassing the transformer banks? Feed the impulse engines directly.
SCOTT	I tried that, sir. Nothing.
SPOCK	Lieutenant Uhura, have sensors learned anything about the nature of the force which holds us here?
UHURA	No, sir. They report they definitely emanate from that solar system ahead.
SPOCK	No indication of its composition? Gravimetric? Magnetic? Electronic?
UHURA	Nothing, sir.
KIRK	This is Captain James Kirk of the Starship Enterprise. Who ever finds this please get it to Starfleet Command. I'm engaged in personal combat with a creature apparently called a Gorn.
KIRK	He's immensely strong. Already he has withstood attacks from me that would have killed a human being. Fortunately, though strong, he is not agile. The agility and, I hope, the cleverness, is mine.
KIRK	The Metrons, the creatures that sent us both here, said that the surface of the planet provides the raw material to construct weapons. There's very little here. Scrub brush, rocks, an abundance of mineral deposits, but no weapons in the conventional sense. Still, I need to find one. Bare-handed against the Gorn, I have no chance.
SPOCK	Leave channel one open, Lieutenant, just in case.
UHURA	Aye, aye, sir.
MCCOY	What are you going to do, Mister Spock?
SPOCK	I'm going to wait, Doctor. There's little else I can do.
MCCOY	What about the Captain?
SPOCK	If I could help him, I would. I cannot.
MCCOY	Now, you're the one that's always talking about logic. What about some logic now? Where's the Captain, Mister Spock?
SPOCK	He's out there, Doctor. Out there somewhere in a thousand cubic parsecs of space, and there's absolutely nothing we can do to help him.
KIRK	A large deposit of diamonds on the surface. Perhaps the hardest substance known in the universe. Beautifully crystallized and pointed, but too small to be useful as a weapon. An incredible fortune in stones yet I would trade them all for a hand phaser, or a good solid club. Yet the Metrons said there would be weapons, if I could find them. Where? What kind?
SPOCK	This is the U.S.S. Enterprise calling the Metrons. Our channels are open. Come in, please. We urgently desire a conference. Please answer.
KIRK	This may be my last entry. I am almost exhausted. Unless I find the weapon the Metron mentioned I have very little time left. Native sulphur, diamonds. This place is a mineralogist's dream. Yet there is something about sulphur. Something very old. Something? If only I could remember.
MCCOY	The ship, our engines, our weapons. It's just inconceivable that we are immobilised.
SPOCK	But it has happened, Doctor.
METRON	We are the Metrons. Your Captain is losing his battle. We would suggest you make whatever memorial arrangements, if any, which are customary in your culture. We believe you have very little time left.
MCCOY	We appeal to you in the name of civilisation. Put a stop to this.
METRON	Your violent intent and actions demonstrate that you are not civilised. However, we are not without compassion. It is possible you may have feelings toward your Captain. So that you will be able to prepare yourself, we will allow you to see and hear what is now transpiring.
MCCOY	If there were only some way we could contact him.
SPOCK	Yes, indeed, Doctor, if only there were. Notice the substance encrusting that rock. Yes. Unless I'm mistaken, it's potassium nitrate.
MCCOY	So?
SPOCK	Perhaps nothing, Doctor. Perhaps everything.
GORN	Earthling! Captain!
KIRK	Who is this, the Metron?
GORN	This is your opponent, Earthling. I have heard every word you have said.
KIRK	All right. What do you want?
GORN	I'm weary of the chase. Wait for me. I shall be merciful and quick.
KIRK	Like you were at Cestus Three?
GORN	You were intruding! You established an outpost in our space.
KIRK	You butchered helpless human beings
GORN	We destroyed invaders, as I shall destroy you!
MCCOY	Can that be true? Was Cestus Three an intrusion on their space?
SPOCK	It may well be possible, Doctor. We know very little about that section of the galaxy.
MCCOY	Then we could be in the wrong.
SPOCK	Perhaps. That is something best decided by diplomats.
MCCOY	The Gorn simply might have been trying to protect themselves.
SPOCK	Yes.
SPOCK	Fascinating. Good. Good. He knows, Doctor. He has reasoned it out.
SPOCK	Yes. Yes.
MCCOY	What is it, Spock?
SPOCK	An invention, Doctor. First potassium nitrate, and now if he can find some sulphur and a charcoal deposit or ordinary coal.
MCCOY	What's he doing?
SPOCK	Diamonds. The hardest known substance. Impelled by sufficient force, they would make formidable projectiles.
MCCOY	What force?
SPOCK	Recall your basic chemistry, Doctor. Gunpowder.
GORN	Captain, let us be reasonable.
GORN	You have lost. Admit it to yourself. Stop running.
SPOCK	Coal.
MCCOY	Can he do it?
SPOCK	If he has the time, Doctor. If he has the time.
KIRK	No. No, I won't kill you. Maybe you thought you were protecting yourself when you attacked the outpost.
KIRK	No, I won't kill him! Do you hear? You'll have to get your entertainment someplace else!
KIRK	You're a Metron?
METRON	Does my appearance surprise you, Captain?
KIRK	You seem more like a boy.
METRON	I am approximately fifteen hundred of your Earth years old. You surprise me, Captain.
KIRK	How?
METRON	By sparing your helpless enemy who surely would have destroyed you, you demonstrated the advanced trait of mercy, something we hardly expected. We feel there may be hope for your kind. Therefore, you will not be destroyed. It would not be civilised.
KIRK	What happened to the Gorn?
GORN	I sent him back to his ship. If you like, I shall destroy him for you.
KIRK	No. That won't be necessary. We can talk. Maybe reach an agreement.
METRON	Very good, Captain. There is hope for you. Perhaps in several thousand years, your people and mine shall meet to reach an agreement. You are still half savage, but there is hope. We will contact you when we are ready.
UHURA	Captain! Are you all right?
KIRK	I don't know. I don't know. All right, everybody. Back to your posts. Let's get out of here.
SULU	Captain.
KIRK	Mister Sulu.
SULU	It's impossible, but there's Sirius over there when it should be here. And Canopus. And Arcanis. We're. All of a sudden, we're clear across the galaxy, five hundred parsecs from where we are I mean, were. I mean
KIRK	Don't try and figure it out, Mister Sulu. Just plot a course for us back to Cestus Three.
SULU	Aye, aye, sir.
SPOCK	After you touched off your primitive cannon, Captain, we lost the picture the Metron was sending us.
KIRK	You saw what happened down there?
SPOCK	Most of it. I would be interested in knowing what finally happened.
KIRK	We're a most promising species, Mister Spock, as predators go. Did you know that?
SPOCK	I've frequently had my doubts.
KIRK	I don't. Not anymore. And maybe in a thousand years or so, we'll be able to prove it. Never mind, Mister Spock. It doesn't make much sense to me either. Take us back to where we're supposed to be, Mister Sulu. Warp factor one.
SULU	Warp factor one.
SPOCK	A thousand years, Captain? Well, that gives us a little time.
