character	line
KIRK	Captain's Log: Stardate 4372.5. On a top-secret diplomatic mission, the Enterprise has entered the Tellun star system. Maintaining communications blackout, we have taken aboard Petri, Ambassador from Troyius, the outer planet, and are now approaching the inner planet Elas.
KIRK	Some desk-bound Starfleet bureaucrat cut these cloak-and-dagger orders.
SCOTT	Aye, but why the secrecy? This star system's under Federation control.
SPOCK	It's in a border area, Mister Scott. The Klingons also claim jurisdiction.
SCOTT	From what I've seen, it's not worth fighting about. Why are we here, Captain?
KIRK	My orders are to co-operate with Ambassador Petri in all matters pertaining to his mission here.
UHURA	Bridge to Captain Kirk.
KIRK	Scotty. Kirk here. What is it?
UHURA	Captain, I have a signal from the Elasians. They're ready to beam aboard, and they demand an explanation for the delay.
KIRK	Demand? What delay? All right. Beam them aboard.
SPOCK	Sounds typical of the Elasians. The scientists who made the initial investigation reported the men were vicious and arrogant.
MCCOY	That's just the negative part, Mister Spock. I've been over those records. Now the women, they're supposed to be something very special. They're supposed to have a kind of subtle, mystical power that drives men wild.
KIRK	Ambassador Petri, would you drop all this nonsense and tell me what this is about?
PETRI	That must wait until the Dohlman is aboard.
KIRK	Dohlman? What the devil is a Dohlman?
PETRI	The thing most feared and hated by my people. Our most deadly enemy.
PETRI	Welcome. I am Petri, Ambassador of Troyius.
KIRK	I'm Captain Kirk. This ship is under my command.
KRYTON	There's a Troyian here. I must know that all is secure before the Dohlman is brought on board.
KIRK	This ship is secure and we're prepared for any hostile acts. Energise.
KRYTON	Do honour to the Dohlman of Elas.
KRYTON	Glory to Elaan, Dohlman of Elas.
KRYTON	You may stand.
KIRK	Body armour, nuclear weapons.
SPOCK	Not without precedent, Captain. Remember that
KRYTON	Permission to speak was not given.
ELAAN	You rule this ship?
SPOCK	I am the first officer. This is Captain James Kirk.
PETRI	Your Glory, I am Petri. In the name of my people
ELAAN	Your mission is known to us. Captain Kirk, you have now permission to show us to our quarters.
KIRK	Well, now, just a moment. There's going to have to be some kind of understanding.
PETRI	Please.
KIRK	My first officer Mister Spock will show you to your quarters. Ambassador, I'd like to speak to you.
ELAAN	You have not been dismissed.
KIRK	May I have your permission to go?
ELAAN	You are now dismissed.
KIRK	Why, thank you. Ambassador.
KIRK	Ambassador, I think it's time you told me what's going on.
PETRI	That creature, Elaan, is to be the wife of our ruler to bring peace. Our two warring planets now possess the capability of mutual destruction. Some method of co-existence must be found.
KIRK	I see. So, we go back to Troyius.
PETRI	Yes. But slowly, Captain. I will need time. Before we reach there, she must be taught civilised manners. In her present condition, my people would never accept her.
KIRK	And you are to be her teacher?
PETRI	Those are my orders. I must ask you and your crew to respect, or at least tolerate, their arrogance. Friction must be kept at a minimum.
KIRK	Yes, that I can understand.
PETRI	Another thing you should understand, Captain. You have as much at stake as I have. Your superiors made the statement that failure of this mission would be as catastrophic for Federation planning as it would be for our two planets. To gain peace at the price of accepting such a queen is no victory. I will take her the official gifts I bear. Perhaps that will soften her mood.
KIRK	Mister Chekov, lay in a course for Troyius. Mister Sulu, impulse drive, speed factor point zero three seven.
SULU	Impulse drive, Captain?
KIRK	Yes, that's correct, Mister Sulu. Sublight factor point zero three seven.
SULU	Aye, aye, sir.
SCOTT	Captain? You'll not be using the warp drive? All the way on impulse? That'll take a great deal of time.
KIRK	You in a hurry, Mister Scott?
SCOTT	No.
SPOCK	Captain, the Dohlman is dissatisfied with the quarters provided.
UHURA	What's the matter with them, Mister Spock?
SPOCK	I do not know, but all the Elasians seem most irrational.
UHURA	I gave up my quarters because I
KIRK	Yes, I appreciate your sacrifice, Lieutenant Uhura. I'll talk to her myself.
ELAAN	Swine! Take back your gifts!
PETRI	Your Glory, these are your wedding slippers.
ELAAN	Your ruler cannot buy the favours of the Dohlman of Elas.
PETRI	This, this is your wedding dress, a gift from the bridegroom's mother.
ELAAN	I want nothing of his!
PETRI	This, This is the most prized of royal jewels for your lovely neck.
ELAAN	I would strangle if I was to put the gift of a Troyian dog around my neck. Kryton, by whose permission did he enter?
KRYTON	He came in answer to your summons.
KIRK	I understand you're not happy with your quarters.
ELAAN	Quarters!
KIRK	Yes, not happy at all.
ELAAN	Am I a soft Troyian fawn to need pillows to sit on? And these ridiculous female trappings. They are an offense to my eyes.
KIRK	My communications officer generously vacated the rooms hoping you would find it satisfactory.
ELAAN	I do not find them so, and I find him even less satisfactory. Must my bitterness be compounded with that ridiculous ambassador aboard your ship?
PETRI	I explained to Her Glory that her council of nobles and the Troyius Tribunal jointly agreed that I should instruct make her acquainted with the customs and manners of our people.
ELAAN	Kryton! Remove him! And take that garbage with you?
ELAAN	He dares to suggest that I adopt the servile manners of his people!
KIRK	Your Glory doesn't seem to be responding to instruction.
ELAAN	I will never forgive the council for putting me through this torture. Were you responding to my demand for better quarters?
KIRK	There are none better. I suggest you make do with these.
ELAAN	You suggest?
KIRK	There are no more available, but if that's the only way you can get gratification, I'll arrange to have the whole room filled from floor to ceiling with breakable objects.
ELAAN	I will not be humiliated!
KIRK	Then act in a civilised fashion.
ELAAN	I did not give you permission to leave!
KIRK	I didn't ask for any.
PETRI	Captain, I wish to contact my government. I cannot fulfil my mission. It would be an insult to our ruler to bring this incorrigible monster as a bride!
KIRK	Ambassador! This is supposed to be a peaceful mission.
PETRI	There cannot be peace between us. We have deluded ourselves. Captain, when I am near them, I do not want peace. I want to kill them.
KIRK	You're as bad as she is. It's not required that you like each other. Just do your job.
PETRI	Job? The job is impossible. We cannot make peace with people we detest.
KIRK	Stop trying to kill each other. Then worry about being friendly.
PETRI	But if she won't listen to me
KIRK	Then make her listen, Ambassador. Use a different approach. Stop being so diplomatic. She respects strength. Go in strong.
SPOCK	At first it appeared to be a sensor ghost, but I've run checks on all the instrumentation. All the equipment is functioning perfectly.
KIRK	Hydrogen cloud reflection?
SPOCK	None in this area. Nothing that would account for it. The ghost appears intermittently.
KIRK	Speculation?
SPOCK	None, Captain. Insufficient data.
KIRK	It's not an instrument malfunction. It's not a reflection from a natural phenomenon. A spaceship?
SCOTT	Engineering to Captain Kirk.
KIRK	Kirk here.
SCOTT	Captain, I know what you said about showing respect, but must I have these persons fool around with my equipment?
KIRK	Hang on, Scotty. Be pleasant no matter how much it hurts. I'll be right down.
MAN	We're only running on impulse engines now. Ordinarily, we use the warp engines exclusively.
SCOTT	Well, I suppose, lassie, that even our impulse engines must seem fast compared to your nuclear propulsion units.
ELAAN	We are interested in how the ship is used in combat, not in what drives it. Engines are for mechanics and menials.
SCOTT	Menials? Without engines, there'd be no fighting or
KIRK	Mister Scott! I wish you had told me you wanted a tour of the engineering department.
ELAAN	Do we not have the freedom of this ship? We have granted your crew the permission not to kneel in our presence. What else do you want?
KIRK	Courtesy. Remember?
ELAAN	Courtesy is not for inferiors.
KIRK	Courtesy is for everyone around here, and you'll find you won't be able to exist on Troyius without it. Mister Scott, our Chief Engineer, has shown you his engineering department. That's a courtesy. You respond by saying thank you.
SPOCK	Bridge to Captain.
KIRK	Kirk here.
SPOCK	That sensor ghost is moving closer.
KIRK	On my way.
SULU	Lost contact now.
SPOCK	Captain, we had a momentary fix on the object enough to establish it was a spaceship.
KIRK	Whose?
SPOCK	No data yet.
SULU	Captain! Distant bearing, sir, mark seven three point five.
KIRK	Main screen. Extreme magnification.
SPOCK	Our ghost has materialised.
KIRK	A Klingon warship. Any change, Mister Spock?
SPOCK	Negative, Captain. The Klingon ship has simply moved into contact range. She is pacing us, precisely matching our sublight speed and on a parallel course.
SECURITY	Security to Captain Kirk.
KIRK	Kirk here. What is it?
SECURITY	Disturbance in the Dohlman's quarters, sir.
KIRK	On my way.
SECURITY	Captain, it's Ambassador Petri. They refuse to explain what's happening, but
KRYTON	Her Glory has not summoned you.
ELAAN	Kryton, remove that Troyian pig.
MCCOY	It was a deep wound, Jim. He lost a lot of blood, but he'll recover.
PETRI	If I recover, it will be no thanks to you, Captain.
KIRK	I said talk with her, not fight with her.
PETRI	I should've known better than to talk to her unarmed, but you forced me. I hold you responsible for this.
MCCOY	Well, I've heard of reluctant brides, but this is ridiculous.
UHURA	Captain Kirk. May I speak with you, sir?
KIRK	Yes. Certainly.
UHURA	A message just came from Starfleet Command. It was class-A security and scrambled. I put it through the decoder.
KIRK	What was it?
UHURA	The Federation High Commissioner is on his way to Troyius to attend the royal wedding.
CHAPEL	Ambassador, if Elasian women are that vicious, why are men so overwhelmingly attracted to them? I mean, what magic do they possess?
PETRI	It's not magic. It's biochemical. A man whose flesh is once touched by the tears of a woman of Elas has his heart enslaved forever.
KIRK	Ambassador, there's an added complication. The Federation High Commissioner will be attending the wedding.
MCCOY	The fat will be in the fire when he learns the bride just tried to murder the groom's ambassador.
PETRI	There will be no wedding. I would not have our ruler marry that monster if the entire galaxy depended on it, and I will have nothing further to do with you.
KIRK	I'm not asking you to have anything to do with me. Do your job with her. How long before he's on his feet?
MCCOY	It'll be a few days. A week, at least, Jim.
PETRI	Here you put me, Captain. Here I will stay. I have nothing further to say to you.
ELAAN	So, Ambassador Petri is going to recover? That is too bad. You have delivered your message. Now you may go.
KIRK	Nothing would please me more, Your Glory. But your impetuous nature
ELAAN	Your Troyian pig was here in my quarters without any permission, so I stabbed him. Just to be Troyian is enough.
KIRK	You Elasians pride yourselves on being a warrior people. You must understand discipline to be able to give and take orders. My orders are to take you to Troyius to be married and to see that you learn Troyian customs.
ELAAN	I despise Troyians. Any contact with them makes me feel soiled.
KIRK	It's been my experience that the prejudices people feel about each other disappear when they get to know each other.
ELAAN	It's not in my experience.
KIRK	Well, we're still faced with the same problem.
ELAAN	Problem?
KIRK	Yes, the problem of your indoctrination to Troyian customs and manners.
ELAAN	I have eliminated that problem.
KIRK	You have eliminated the teacher. The problem still remains.
ELAAN	Oh. And how do we solve the problem?
KIRK	By giving you a new teacher.
ELAAN	Tell me, what can you teach me?
KIRK	Table manners, for one thing. This is a plate. It contains food. This is a knife. It cuts the food. This is a glass.
ELAAN	Leave me!
KIRK	Like it or not, you're going to learn what you've been ordered to learn.
ELAAN	You will return me to Elas immediately.
KIRK	That's impossible.
ELAAN	Everything I order is possible.
KIRK	That's the first problem we're going to work on. Then we'll get you ready to go to Troyius.
ELAAN	I will not go to Troyius, I will not be mated to a Troyian, and I will not be humiliated, and I will not be given to a green pig as a bribe to stop a war!
KIRK	You enjoy the privileges and prerogatives of being a Dohlman. Then be worthy of them. If you don't want the obligations that go along with the title, then give it up.
ELAAN	Nobody speaks to me that way.
KIRK	That's another one of your problems. Nobody's told you that you're an uncivilized savage, a vicious child in a woman's body, an arrogant monster!
KIRK	That's no way to treat someone who's telling you the truth.
KIRK	Tomorrow's lesson will be on courtesy.
KIRK	Lieutenant, open up the hailing frequency, identify us, and ask the Klingon his intentions.
UHURA	Aye, sir.
UHURA	Captain, no response from the Klingon vessel on any channel.
KIRK	I see. All right, Lieutenant. Monitor all frequencies. Phaser crews stand by. Maintain Yellow Alert.
WATSON	What are you doing?
ELASIAN	No one may enter the Dohlman's presence.
KIRK	Where's Kryton?
ELASIAN	On business. No one may enter the Dohlman's presence.
KIRK	Will you tell Her Glory that Captain Kirk requests the honour of a visit.
ELASIAN	The Dohlman has promised I'll be whipped to death if I let Captain Kirk pass through that door.
KIRK	Thank you, Mister Spock. When they wake up, take them to Security holding.
SPOCK	Captain, your analysis of the situation was flawless, anticipating that she would deny you admittance. However, the logic by which you arrived at your conclusion escapes me.
KIRK	Mister Spock, the women on your planet are logical. That's the only planet in this galaxy that can make that claim.
ELAAN	You dare touch a member of the royal family.
KIRK	Only in self-defence. Now, are you going to behave or not?
ELAAN	The penalty is death for what you are doing.
KIRK	We're not on Elas. We're on my starship. I command here.
ELAAN	You are warned, Captain, never to touch me again.
KIRK	If I touch you again, Your Glory, it'll be to administer an ancient Earth custom called a spanking, a form of punishment administered to spoiled brats.
ELAAN	You have my leave to go.
KIRK	You forget, Your Glory, we haven't started your lesson in courtesy.
ELAAN	You can teach me nothing, Captain. If I have to stay here for ten light years, I will not be soiled by any contact with you.
KIRK	Very well. I'll send in Mister Spock or Doctor McCoy. Either way, you're going to be properly prepared for Troyius. As ordered by councils, rulers, and bureaucrats.
ELAAN	Captain, there is one thing you can teach me.
KIRK	No, no, you were right the first time. There's nothing I can teach you. There's nothing you do not know.
ELAAN	I don't know how to make people like me. I don't want everybody to hate me.
KIRK	Well, it's not it's not that people hate you. It's just that people don't like to be treated as though they don't exist.
KIRK	It's, er, gotten very, er. Something must've gone wrong with the ventilation system.
ELAAN	Captain?
KIRK	Pardon me, Your Glory. There will be a short recess.
ELAAN	Captain.
ELAAN	Captain, that ancient Earth custom called spanking, what is it?
KIRK	It's, er, It's, er. We'll talk about it later.
UHURA	Bridge to Captain Kirk. Mister Spock, I'm getting
SPOCK	I have it on my sensor, Lieutenant.
UHURA	Bridge to Captain Kirk. Come in, please. Captain Kirk, please answer.
KIRK	Kirk here.
UHURA	Oh, Captain, I'm picking up a transmission from inside the Enterprise. It's on a tight beam aimed at the Klingon vessel.
KIRK	Inside the Enterprise? Can you pinpoint it?
SPOCK	Spock here, Captain. I am triangulating now. It's coming from the engineering section.
KIRK	Security to Engineering. Intruder alert. Security alert to all decks. Kirk out.
SCOTT	Nobody saw him, but that devil sneaked back in here some way. Watson must've caught him and he was killed for it. He had this. Looks like some sort of transmitter.
KIRK	It's Klingon. Bones?
MCCOY	Neck snapped clean.
KIRK	What kind of signal did you send the Klingon ship?
KRYTON	Captain, you must know I will tell you nothing. Our interrogation techniques are more excruciating than you are even capable of.
KIRK	Yes, I'm aware you're trained to resist any form of physical torture. Kirk to Spock.
SPOCK	Spock here, Captain.
KIRK	Mister Spock, it was Kryton transmitting. He refuses to talk. I'll need you for the Vulcan mind meld.
SECURITY	Captain, I'm sorry. He seemed
KIRK	What was he trying to cover that was so important he felt he had to die for it? Scotty, he didn't come into Engineering just to use the transmitter. I want you to check every relay you've got.
SCOTT	Captain, you must realise the time
KIRK	Don't waste the time telling me about it. Get to it.
SCOTT	Aye.
ELAAN	Kryton was of a noble family. He loved me and wanted to marry me. He was furious when he heard of the announcement of the wedding plans.
KIRK	He sold out to the Klingons because of jealousy?
ELAAN	Probably. But why speak of unimportant matters when we can speak about us?
KIRK	There's a Klingon warship out there. What's their involvement? Surely all of this isn't because they want to stop a marriage.
ELAAN	We should welcome their help.
KIRK	Elaan. Elaan, two planets, an entire star system's stability depends on it. We have a duty to forget what happened.
ELAAN	Could you do that? Could you give me to another man?
KIRK	My orders and yours say that you belong to another man. What happened, what happened was an accident.
ELAAN	It was no accident. I chose you, and you chose me. I have a plan. With this ship, you could completely obliterate Troyius. Then there will be no need for the marriage. And in gratitude, my people will give you the complete rule of this system.
KIRK	What kind of a mind could think of such a thing?
ELAAN	He's a Troyian.
SPOCK	Captain?
ELAAN	You cannot resist my love, my love.
SPOCK	Captain.
SPOCK	May we see you a moment?
MCCOY	Jim. Jim! May we please have a word with you?
SPOCK	Captain, are you all right?
MCCOY	Did she cry, Jim?
KIRK	What?
MCCOY	Did she cry? Did her tears touch you at any time?
MCCOY	Oh, we're in trouble. Now listen, Jim. Petri told Christine that the Elasian women have a sort of a biochemical substance in their tears that acts like a super love potion. And according to him, it doesn't wear off.
SPOCK	It is true then, Captain?
KIRK	It's true. Bones, you've got to find me an antidote.
MCCOY	I'll try, but I'll need tests and
SULU	Bridge to Captain.
KIRK	Captain here.
SULU	Captain, the Klingon ship has changed course. It is heading toward us at warp speed.
KIRK	I'm on my way. Battle stations.
KIRK	Phasers stand by.
SULU	Phasers ready, sir.
SPOCK	Their speed is better than warp six, Captain.
KIRK	Mister Chekov, lay in a course to take us out of this star system. If they want to fight, Let's get some manoeuvering room.
CHEKOV	Course computed, sir.
SULU	Laid in, Captain.
KIRK	All right. Ahead warp factor two.
SCOTT	Captain, the matter-antimatter
KIRK	Belay that order. What is it, Scotty?
SCOTT	The anti-matter pods are rigged to blow up the moment we go into warp drive.
KIRK	Scotty, that bomb he planted. Can you dismantle it?
SCOTT	Not without being blown halfway across the galaxy.
KIRK	Give us every ounce of power you can from the impulse drive, and find a solution to the bomb. Kirk out. Mister Sulu, stand by to make your manoeuvres smartly. She'll be sluggish on response.
SULU	Aye, sir. One hundred thousand kilometres. Ninety. Eighty.
KIRK	Phaser crews, stand by to fire on command.
SULU	Sixty.
KIRK	Ready.
SULU	Fifty.
KIRK	Hold your fire.
SULU	She's passed us without firing a shot.
SPOCK	I don't think they meant to attack us. We were very fortunate this time.
KIRK	Yes, their tactics are quite clear now, Mister Spock. They were trying to make us cut in warp drive. That way we'd have blown ourselves up and solved their problem for them without risking war with the Federation. Very neat.
SPOCK	Very. But why do the Klingons consider the possession of this system so vital?
KIRK	Yes, a very good question, Mister Spock.
SPOCK	I have another question, Captain. Is not the bridge the wrong place for the Dohlman at a time like this?
KIRK	I'll be the judge. Yes, you're quite right. Thank you, Mister Spock. I want you to go to Sickbay. It's the best protected part of the ship.
ELAAN	I want to be by your side.
KIRK	Your presence here is interfering with my efficiency, my ability to protect you. Mister Spock, you have the conn.
KIRK	Deck five.
ELAAN	I love you. I have chosen you, and still I don't understand why you didn't fight the Klingon.
KIRK	If I can accomplish my mission by turning tail and running, I'll gladly do that.
ELAAN	And that mission is to take me to Troyius.
KIRK	Yes.
ELAAN	Would you have me wearing my wedding dress for another man and never see you again?
KIRK	Yes, Elaan.
ELAAN	Are you happy at the prospect?
KIRK	No.
SCOTT	Scott to Captain.
KIRK	Kirk here.
SCOTT	I've got bad news, Captain. The entire dilithium crystal converter assembly is fused. No chance of repair.
SCOTT	It's completely unusable.
KIRK	No chance of restoring warp drive?
SCOTT	Not without dilithium crystals. We can't even generate enough power to fire our weapons.
KIRK	Kirk out. Elaan, I have to go back to the Bridge. Please, you must go to Sickbay.
ELAAN	Yes, my love.
CHAPEL	Test number twenty four. Colladium trioxide in algobarium solution.
MCCOY	Results also negative.
PETRI	Doctor, there is no antidote to the poison of Elasian tears. The men of Elas have tried desperately for centuries to dispel its power. You're wasting your time, Doctor.
MCCOY	It is my time to waste, Ambassador.
ELAAN	Doctor? The Captain asked me to come here for safety.
PETRI	Safety? What is your estimate of our chances for survival, Doctor?
MCCOY	That is the captain's responsibility, Ambassador.
UHURA	Captain, message from the Klingon ship. They're ordering us to stand by for boarding or be destroyed.
SPOCK	They demand an immediate reply.
KIRK	They're trying to force a fight. Scotty, what's our energy status?
SCOTT	Ninety three percent of impulse power, sir.
SPOCK	We can still manoeuvre.
SCOTT	Manoeuvre? Aye. We can wallow like a garbage scow against a warp-driven starship.
SCOTT	Our shields will hold for a few passes, but without the matter-antimatter reactor, we've no chance. Captain, can you not call Starfleet on this emergency?
KIRK	And let the Klingons know they succeeded in wiping out our warp engines?
SPOCK	Help could not arrive before the Enterprise would be destroyed.
PETRI	Now that we are all about to die, I ask you once again to accept this necklace, and to wear it as a token of respect for the desperate wishes of your people and mine for peace.
ELAAN	That's all you men of other worlds can speak of, duty and responsibility.
KIRK	We'll stall for time, proceed on course and hope the Klingons can be bluffed. Or that they're not prepared for a general war. Open a hailing frequency.
UHURA	Frequency open, sir.
KIRK	This is Captain James Kirk of the USS Enterprise on Federation business. Our mission is peaceful, but we're not prepared to accept any interference.
KLINGON	Enterprise, prepare to be boarded or destroyed.
KIRK	I'd say our strategy wasn't totally effective.
SULU	Captain, the Klingon ship is closing on an intercept course. Five hundred thousand kilometres. Deflector shields up.
KIRK	Scotty, can you give me partial power on the phaser banks?
SCOTT	No, sir, not a chance.
SULU	Three hundred thousand kilometres.
KIRK	I told you to stay in Sickbay.
ELAAN	I want to die with you.
KIRK	We're not going to die. Now get off the bridge.
SULU	One hundred thousand kilometres.
SPOCK	He's passed us. All shields held.
KIRK	Mister Sulu, bring her to one four three mark two. Keep our forward shields to him.
SULU	Here he comes again, sir.
KIRK	Stay with the controls. Keep our forward shields to him.
SPOCK	Better than warp seven.
KIRK	Hard over, Sulu. Bring her around. He's going for our flank. Sulu!
SULU	Sorry, Captain. She won't respond fast enough on impulse.
SPOCK	He's past us again. Damage to number four shield.
KIRK	How bad?
SPOCK	It will not withstand another full charge, Captain. I'm getting some very peculiar energy readings.
SULU	He's paralleling us again. He seems to have broken off the attack.
KIRK	What sort of readings, Mister Spock?
SPOCK	She is the source.
KIRK	Elaan?
SPOCK	The necklace.
KIRK	What kind of jewels are in this?
ELAAN	They call them radans. The necklace is supposed to bring you luck. It is of little value. They are common stones.
SPOCK	These are common stones? See, Captain? Here and here.
KIRK	Common stones? Now I see why the Klingons are interested in this system. May I have this?
ELAAN	If I can be of any help, of course.
KIRK	You may have just saved our lives. Mister Spock, do you think Scotty could make use of dilithium crystals?
SPOCK	No doubt, Captain.
SULU	He's coming in again, sir.
KIRK	Mister Sulu, prepare on my order to turn quickly to port. Try and protect the number four shield.
SULU	Aye, sir.
KIRK	Now, Sulu. hard a-port!
SULU	Shields holding, but weakened, sir.
UHURA	Captain. Message coming in.
KLINGON	Enterprise, our readings confirm your power extremely low, your shields buckling. This is your last chance to surrender.
SULU	Captain, number four shield just collapsed. Impulse power down to thirty one percent.
KIRK	Lieutenant Uhura, open a hailing frequency.
UHURA	Channel open, sir.
KIRK	This is Captain James Kirk of the United Spaceship Enterprise. May I request your terms for surrender?
KLINGON	No terms. Surrender must be unconditional and immediate.
KIRK	Scotty, your estimate.
SCOTT	We're fitting it now, sir, but we'll have to run a few tests to make sure.
KIRK	Test it in combat.
SPOCK	Captain, these are crude crystals. There is no way to judge what the unusual shapes will do to the energy flow.
SCOTT	Aye, that could blow us up just as effectively as
KIRK	Let me know when it's in place. Open a hailing frequency.
UHURA	Hailing frequency open, sir.
KIRK	This is the Enterprise. Will you guarantee the safety of our passenger, the Dohlman from Elas?
KLINGON	No conditions. Surrender immediately.
SULU	Captain, he's starting his run.
SCOTT	Scott to Captain.
SCOTT	It's in place, sir, but I can't answer for what happens.
KIRK	You and Spock get up here. Sulu, prepare for warp manoeuvres.
SULU	Aye, sir.
KIRK	Chekov, arm photon torpedoes.
CHEKOV	Photon torpedoes ready.
SULU	Warp power to the shields, Captain?
KIRK	Negative. His sensors will pick up our power increase. The more helpless he thinks we are, the closer he'll come. As he passes, I want to cut in warp drive. We'll pivot at warp two and bring all tubes to bear.
SULU	Aye, sir.
KIRK	Mister Chekov, give him a full spread of photon torpedoes.
CHEKOV	Aye, Captain.
SULU	One hundred thousand kilometres.
KIRK	Scotty, stand by to cut in warp drive.
SCOTT	Fluctuation. It's the shape of the crystals. I was afraid of that.
SULU	Seventy five. Seventy. Sixty. Fifty.
KIRK	Fire at minimum range.
SULU	Forty.
SCOTT	She won't steady down.
SULU	Thirty.
KIRK	Warp in, Scotty. Full power to shields.
KIRK	Warp factor two. Bring us to course one four eight mark three.
KIRK	Chekov, photon torpedoes. Fire!
CHEKOV	Aye, sir.
SULU	Direct hit amidships by photon torpedo.
SPOCK	Damage to Klingon number three shield. Number four shield obliterated. Loss of manoeuvre power.
CHEKOV	He's badly damaged, Captain. Continuing away at reduced speed.
KIRK	Secure from general quarters. Well done, Mister Sulu. Scotty.
ELAAN	But I don't understand you. You mean you won't pursue and finish him off?
KIRK	No. Mister Sulu, resume course for Troyius.
SULU	Aye, aye, sir.
ELAAN	You will not beam down for the ceremony?
KIRK	No.
ELAAN	I want you to have this as a personal memento. I have learned that on Troyius, they do not wear such things. Remember me.
KIRK	I have no choice.
ELAAN	Nor have I. I have only responsibilities and obligations. Goodbye.
KIRK	Goodbye. Energise.
SCOTT	It's stabilised now.
MCCOY	Spock, I've isolated the biochemical substance of the Elasian tears. It's a kind of an infection, and I think I've found an antidote.
SPOCK	You are too late, Doctor. The Captain has found his own antidote.
MCCOY	Are you out of your Vulcan mind? Do you know how long I've worked on
SPOCK	The antidote to a woman of Elas, Doctor, is a starship. The Enterprise infected the Captain long before the Dohlman did.
KIRK	Mister Sulu, prepare to take us out of orbit.
MCCOY	Well, I doubt seriously if there's any kind of an antidote for the Enterprise.
SPOCK	In this particular instance, Doctor, I agree with you.
KIRK	Ahead warp factor two.
