character	line
KIRK	Anything from the landing party?
SPOCK	They should be sending up a report momentarily, Captain. Something wrong?
KIRK	A kink in my back. That's it. A little higher, please. Push. Push hard. Dig it in there, Mister
KIRK	Thank you, Yeoman. That's sufficient.
TONIA	You need sleep, Captain. If it's not out of line
KIRK	I have enough of that from Doctor McCoy, Yeoman. Thank you.
SPOCK	Doctor McCoy is correct, Captain. After what this ship has been through in the last three months, there is not a crewman aboard who is not in need of rest. Myself excepted, of course.
KIRK	Have Doctor McCoy's report channeled to my quarters, Lieutenant.
UHURA	Aye, aye, Captain.
SULU	Beautiful, beautiful. No animals, no people, no worries. Just what the doctor ordered. Right, Doctor?
MCCOY	I couldn't have prescribed better. We are one weary ship.
SULU	Do you think the Captain will authorise shore leave here?
MCCOY	Depending upon my report and that of the other scouting parties. You know, you have to see this place to believe it. It's like something out of Alice in Wonderland. The Captain has to come down.
SULU	He'd like it.
MCCOY	He needs it. You've got your problems, I've got mine. He's got ours, plus his, plus four hundred and thirty other people's. Where are you going?
SULU	To get some cell-structure records. A blade of grass, a bush, a tree, a flower petal. With these, we can tell the whole planet's biology.
RABBIT	Oh, my paws and whiskers! I'll be late.
ALICE	Excuse me, sir. Have you seen a rather large white rabbit with a yellow waistcoat and white gloves here about?
ALICE	Thank you very much.
MCCOY	Sulu!
SULU	What is it? What's the matter?
MCCOY	Did you see them?
SULU	See what? I don't see anything. What is it, Doc?
KIRK	Captain's log. Stardate 3025 er, point 3. We are orbiting an uninhabited planet in the Omicron Delta region. A planet remarkably like Earth, or how we remember Earth to be. Park-like, beautiful, green, flowers, trees, green lawn, quiet and restful. Almost too good to be true.
TONIA	Sir, I don't see your name in any of the shore parties.
KIRK	I may be tired, Yeoman, but I'm not falling apart. Dismissed.
TONIA	Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK	Mister Spock, we're beaming down the starboard section first. Which section would you like to go with?
SPOCK	Not necessary in my case, Captain. On my planet, to rest is to rest, to cease using energy. To me, it is quite illogical to run up and down on green grass using energy instead of saving it.
KIRK	Kirk here.
UHURA	Doctor McCoy calling from the planet, Captain.
KIRK	Yes. Open a channel, Uhura.
UHURA	Aye, aye, sir.
MCCOY	Captain, are you beaming down?
KIRK	I hadn't planned to, Bones. Why?
MCCOY	Well, either our scouting probes and detectors are malfunctioning, and all us scouts careless and beauty-intoxicated, or I must report myself unfit for duty.
KIRK	Explain.
MCCOY	On this supposedly uninhabited planet, I just saw a large rabbit
MCCOY	Pull a gold watch from his vest and claim that he was late.
KIRK	That's pretty good. I got one for you. The rabbit was followed by a little blonde girl, right?
MCCOY	As a matter of fact, yes.
MCCOY	And they disappeared through a hole in a hedge.
KIRK	All right, Doctor, I'll take your report under consideration. Captain out. That's a McCoy pill, with a little mystery sugar-coating. He wants to get me down there. I'm afraid I won't swallow it.
SPOCK	Very well, Captain. Something I did come to discuss.
KIRK	Yes, Mister Spock, what is it?
SPOCK	I picked this up from Doctor McCoy's log. We have a crewmember aboard who's showing signs of stress and fatigue. Reaction time down nine to twelve percent, associational reading norm minus three.
KIRK	That's much too low a rating.
SPOCK	He's becoming irritable and quarrelsome, yet he refuses to take rest and rehabilitation. Now, He has that right, but we've found
KIRK	A crewman's right ends where the safety of the ship begins. That man will go a shore on my orders. What's his name?
SPOCK	James Kirk. Enjoy yourself, Captain. It's an interesting planet. You'll find it quite pleasant. Very much like your Earth.
SPOCK	Scouts have detected no animals, artefacts, or force fields of any kind. Only peace, sunshine, and good air. You'll have no problems.
TELLER	Does it always have to be work with you? There's so much loveliness.
RODRIGUEZ	You won't find all this so lovely if our report for the Captain isn't ready when he asks for it, which shouldn't be long.
KIRK	Rodriguez, Teller, everything all right?
RODRIGUEZ	Yes, sir. We've completed the specimen survey.
KIRK	Good. That should be sufficient. Beam it up to Mister Spock when you're ready, and start enjoying yourselves.
RODRIGUEZ	Thank you, sir. And sir, I think you'll find Doctor McCoy and Mister Sulu that way.
KIRK	Thank you.
KIRK	Restful. After what we've been through, it's hard to believe a place this beautiful exists.
TONIA	It is beautiful. So lovely, and restful. I mean, affirmative, Captain.
KIRK	McCoy! McCoy!
MCCOY	Over here. Over here.
KIRK	Bones, know any good rabbit jokes lately?
MCCOY	As a matter of fact, I do, but this is not one of them. Look at this. I saw what I saw, or maybe I hallucinated it, but I want you to take a look and tell me what you think about it.
KIRK	Footprints. Could be a rabbit. It would have to be an unusual creature to make this size tracks. What about Mister Sulu? Will he confirm what you saw?
MCCOY	Negative. He was examining the flora at the time.
KIRK	Bridge, this is the Captain.
TONIA	Where is Mister Sulu?
MCCOY	Collecting specimens.
UHURA	Bridge.
KIRK	Has the first shore party beamed down yet?
UHURA	Negative, Captain. They're just about to start.
KIRK	Get this message to all shore parties. Stand by. No one is to leave the ship.
UHURA	Aye, aye, sir.
MCCOY	You're cancelling the shore leave on account of this, Jim?
KIRK	You're the doctor, Doctor. Can you explain this?
MCCOY	Well, no.
KIRK	Neither can I. I admit it looks harmless. It probably is harmless. But before I bring my people down here, I want proof it's harmless.
KIRK	What do you think you're doing?
SULU	Target shooting, Captain. Isn't it a beauty? Haven't got anything like this in my collection.
KIRK	Where did you get it, Mister Sulu?
SULU	I found it. I know it's a crazy coincidence, but I've always wanted one like this. Found it lying right over there. An old-time police special, and in beautiful condition. Hasn't been one like this made in a couple of centuries.
KIRK	Mister Sulu.
SULU	It fires lead pellets propelled by expanding gases from a chemical explosion.
KIRK	I'll hang on to it. The fresh air seems to have made you trigger-happy.
TONIA	Doctor McCoy's rabbit, sir. He must have gone through here.
KIRK	Are you sure our instruments didn't show any animal life on this planet?
MCCOY	Absolutely. No birds, no mammals, no insects, nothing. I'm certain our readings weren't off.
KIRK	I'd like to believe this is an elaborate gag, but. Yeoman Barrows, you accompany Mister Sulu. Find out where those tracks came from. Doctor, you come with me back to the glade. I'd like another look at that area.
KIRK	This is turning out to be one very unusual shore leave.
MCCOY	Well, it could have been worse.
KIRK	How?
MCCOY	You could have seen the rabbit.
KIRK	What's the matter, Bones, you getting a persecution complex?
MCCOY	Well, yeah, I'm beginning to feel a little bit picked on, if that's what you mean.
KIRK	I know the feeling very well. I had it at the Academy. An upper classman there. One practical joke after another, and always on me. My own personal devil. A guy by the name of Finnegan.
MCCOY	And you being the very serious young
KIRK	Serious? I'll make a confession, Bones. I was absolutely grim, which delighted Finnegan no end. He's the kind of guy to put a bowl of cold soup in your bed or a bucket of water propped on a half-open door. You never knew where he'd strike next. More tracks. Looks like your rabbit came from over there.
MCCOY	A girl's footprints. The young blonde girl I saw chasing it.
KIRK	Yes. You follow the rabbit. I'll backtrack the girl. I'll meet you around the other side of the hill.
MCCOY	Good. I've got a personal grudge against that rabbit, Jim.
FINNEGAN	Jim.
KIRK	Finnegan? I can't believe it.
FINNEGAN	You never know when I'm going to strike, huh, Jim? How's this? Come on, come on. It's me, Finnegan. All right, Jimmy boy. Go ahead, lay one on me. That's what you always wanted, isn't it? Come on. Come on.
KIRK	All right, let's try that one again. Go!
FINNEGAN	Go! Any excuse, Jim baby. Run away! Run away! Run away!
MCCOY	What was it?
KIRK	Yeoman Barrows.
KIRK	What happened?
TONIA	I don't know. I mean I do know. I was following the tracks, and there he was.
KIRK	Who was?
TONIA	Him.
KIRK	Barrows, give me a report.
TONIA	He had a cloak, sir, and a dagger with jewels on it.
KIRK	Are you sure you're not imagining all this?
TONIA	Captain, I know it sounds incredible, but I did not imagine it any more than I imagined he did this.
MCCOY	Sounds like Don Juan.
TONIA	Yes. Yes. It was so sort of story book walking around here, and I was thinking, all a girl needs is Don Juan. Just day dreaming, the way you would about someone you'd like to meet.
KIRK	Mister Sulu was with you. Where is he now?
TONIA	He ran after him.
KIRK	Stay with her, Doctor.
KIRK	Mister Sulu! Sulu!
KIRK	Mister Sulu! Sulu!
KIRK	Sulu!
KIRK	Ruth? Ruth.
RUTH	Jim, darling, it is me. It is Ruth.
KIRK	Captain's log. Stardate 3025.8. Investigation of this increasingly unusual planet continues, and we are seeing things that cannot possibly exist, yet they are undeniably real.
KIRK	McCoy, do you read me? Ruth. Ruth, how can it be you? How could you possibly be here? You haven't aged. It's been fifteen years.
RUTH	It doesn't matter. None of that matters.
KIRK	Kirk here.
MCCOY	Did you find Mister Sulu, Captain?
KIRK	What?
MCCOY	Did you find Mister Sulu?
KIRK	No, but I'm sure he's all right.
MCCOY	Sir? Are you all right?
KIRK	Yes, I'm fine.
RODRIQUEZ	Rodriguez to Captain Kirk.
KIRK	Yes, Mister Rodriguez.
RODRIQUEZ	Captain, a while ago, I saw well, birds, a whole flock of them.
KIRK	Don't you like birds, Mister Rodriguez?
RODRIQUEZ	I like them fine, sir, but all our surveys showed
KIRK	Then offhand I'd say our instruments are defective. There are indeed life-forms on this planet.
RODRIQUEZ	Sir, our surveys couldn't have been that wrong.
KIRK	Mister Rodriguez, have the search parties rendezvous at the glade. I'd like some answers to all this.
RODRIQUEZ	Aye, aye, sir.
RUTH	You have to go?
KIRK	I don't want to.
RUTH	You'll see me again if you want to.
KIRK	You haven't told me. You haven't told me
RUTH	Do what you have to do, and I'll be waiting.
KIRK	Ruth.
KIRK	Kirk here.
SPOCK	Captain.
KIRK	Yes, Mister Spock.
SPOCK	I'm getting strange readings from the planet surface, Captain. Some sort of power field down there.
KIRK	Specify.
SPOCK	A highly sophisticated type of energy draining our power and increasing, beginning to affect our communications.
KIRK	Can you pinpoint the source?
SPOCK	Could be coming from beneath the planet's surface. Patterns indicate some sort of industrial activity.
KIRK	Keep me posted, Mister Spock. We'll continue our investigation down here. Captain out.
MCCOY	Feeling better?
TONIA	A little, but I wouldn't want to be alone here.
MCCOY	It's a beautiful place. A little strange, I'll admit.
TONIA	That's just it. It's almost too beautiful. I was thinking, even before my tunic was torn, that in a place like this a girl should be, oh let's see now, a girl should be dressed like a fairy-tale princess, with lots of floaty stuff and a tall hat with a veil.
MCCOY	I see what you mean, but then you'd have whole armies of Don Juans to fight off. And me, too.
TONIA	Is that a promise, Doctor?
TONIA	Oh, Doctor, they're lovely. Look at me, Doctor. A lady to be protected and fought for. A princess of the blood royale.
MCCOY	You are all of those things and many more. They'll look even lovelier with you wearing them.
TONIA	Doctor, I'm afraid.
MCCOY	Now, look, I don't know how or why, but the dress is here. I'd like to see you in it. Why don't you put it on?
TONIA	All right, but you stay right there. Don't peek.
MCCOY	My dear girl, I am a doctor. When I peek, it's in the line of duty.
RODRIGUEZ	Calling Doctor McCoy.
MCCOY	McCoy here. I can't read you very well. Is this Rodriguez?
RODRIGUEZ	This is all the volume I can get on this thing. Can't read you well, either. Captain's orders. Rendezvous at that glade where he first found you.
MCCOY	Right. What the devil's wrong with communications? Esteban. Esteban.
RODRIQUEZ	Doctor. Doctor. Doctor McCoy!
KIRK	You're the science officer, Mister Spock. I want some answers.
KIRK	First there was McCoy's Alice in Wonderland where there was supposedly no animal life. And Sulu's gun where there's no refined metal detected. Rodriguez' birds. And then my, well, the two people I saw.
SPOCK	Any chance these could be hallucinations?
KIRK	One hallucination flattened me with a clout on the jaw.
KIRK	The other.
SPOCK	That sounds like a painful reality.
KIRK	Yes.
SPOCK	There must be some logical explanation.
SPOCK	Your signal is very weak. Can you turn up your gain?
KIRK	I'm already on maximum.
SPOCK	Captain, shall I beam down an armed party?
KIRK	Negative. Our people here are armed with phasers. Besides, there's yet to be any real danger. Captain out.
KIRK	McCoy. McCoy, do you read me? Kirk to McCoy. Come in.
SULU	Captain, take cover! There's a Samurai after me.
KIRK	A what?
SULU	I mean, there was. Captain, you've got to believe me.
KIRK	I do. I've met some interesting personalities myself. Have you seen any of the others while I've been gone?
SULU	Got a call a few minutes ago. Rodriguez. Said you were rendezvousing back at the glade.
KIRK	I hope he got through to everybody. Communications are almost out.
SULU	That's not all. So's my phaser.
KIRK	Yeah. We'd better get to the glade.
SULU	Yes, sir. Look. Someone beaming down from the bridge.
KIRK	Trying to. Something's obstructing it. Mister Spock, my orders were no one was to leave the ship.
SPOCK	Necessary, Captain. Unable to contact you by communicator, and the transporter is useless to us now. As I told you before, there's an unusual power field down here. It's soaking up all the energy at the source. I calculated the rate of its growth, and reasoned that I just might be able to transport one more person.
KIRK	Good. We can use your help.
SULU	We're stranded down here, Captain?
KIRK	Until we can find out what this is all about.
TONIA	There's no one here.
MCCOY	This is where the Captain said to rendezvous. I swear I heard someone moving around.
TONIA	Don't talk like that.
MCCOY	A princess shouldn't be afraid, not with a brave knight to protect her.
KIRK	That way. Spread out. Let's find it.
MCCOY	These things cannot be real. Hallucinations can't harm us. Go back to where you were.
TONIA	He's dead.
KIRK	Captain's log, supplemental. All contact with the Enterprise has been lost. We're trapped here. Our ship's surgeon, my personal friend, is dead. We're certain now that whatever we're facing is terribly real.
TONIA	It's my fault. It never would have happened. It's my fault.
KIRK	No.
TONIA	It is, it is. I'm to blame.
KIRK	Yeoman! We're in trouble. I need every crewman alert and thinking.
TONIA	Aye, aye, sir.
SULU	Captain! Captain!
SULU	You'd better have a look at this, sir. I don't understand.
KIRK	Neither do I, Mister Sulu, but before we leave this planet, I will.
SULU	It's like a dummy, Captain. It couldn't be alive.
KIRK	Tricorder?
SULU	Still operating, sir.
KIRK	Mister Spock. What do you make of that?
SPOCK	This is not human skin tissue, Captain. It more closely resembles the cellular casting we use for wound repairs. Much finer, of course.
KIRK	I want an exact judgment, Mister Spock.
SPOCK	This is definitely a mechanical contrivance. It has the same basic cell structure as the plants here, even the trees, the grass.
KIRK	Are you saying this is a plant, Mister Spock?
SPOCK	I'm saying that these are all multicellular castings. The plants, the animals, the people. They're all being manufactured.
KIRK	By who? And why? And why these particular things?
SPOCK	All we know for certain is that they act exactly like the real thing. Just as pleasant or just as deadly.
TELLER	What is it?
RODRIGUEZ	Of all the crazy things. Remember what I was telling you a while ago, about the early wars and funny air vehicles they used? That's one of them.
TELLER	Can it hurt us?
RODRIGUEZ	Not unless it makes a strafing run.
TELLER	A what?
RODRIGUEZ	The way they used to attack people on the ground. Come on.
RODRIGUEZ	Angela.
SULU	Captain!
KIRK	McCoy's body?
SULU	He's gone. Dragged off.
TONIA	The black knight, too.
KIRK	Spock?
SPOCK	At this point, Captain, my analysis may not sound very scientific.
KIRK	McCoy's death is a scientific fact.
SPOCK	There is one slight possibility, very slim, but nevertheless. Captain, what were your thoughts just before you encountered the people you described?
KIRK	I was, I was thinking about the Academy. My days
FINNEGAN	Hey, Jim baby! I see you brought out reinforcements. Ha! Well, I'm waiting for you, Jimmy boy.
KIRK	Finnegan. Finnegan! What's been happening to my people?
KIRK	Take Sulu. Find McCoy's body. This man is my problem.
SPOCK	Captain, wait.
KIRK	That's an order, Mister Spock.
FINNEGAN	Here I am! Run!
FINNEGAN	Jim! Find me! Can't you see me? Come and get me! Here I am! Come on. You never could find your head with both hands! Like it used to be, Jimmy. Remember? Hey, Jim
KIRK	I want some answers.
FINNEGAN	Coming up.
FINNEGAN	Get up. Get up. Get up. Always fight fair, don't you? True officer and gentleman, you. You stupid underclassman. I've got the edge. I'm still twenty years old. Look at you. You're an old man.
FINNEGAN	I can't move me leg. I can't feel me leg. My back is broken. You've broken me back.
KIRK	Can you feel that?
FINNEGAN	Can you feel that, now? Sleep sweet, Jimmy boy. Sleep as long as you like. Sleep forever, Jim boy. Forever and forever.
FINNEGAN	Won't you ever learn, Jim boy? You never could take me, you know.
KIRK	Finnegan. One thing
FINNEGAN	Sure. Name it.
KIRK	Answers.
FINNEGAN	Earn them!
FINNEGAN	Not bad. Kind of makes up for things, huh, Jim?
KIRK	A lot of things. What's been happening to my people?
FINNEGAN	I never answer questions from plebes, Jimmy boy.
KIRK	I'm not a plebe. This is today, fifteen years later. What are you doing here?
FINNEGAN	I'm being exactly what you expect me to be, Jimmy boy.
SPOCK	Did you enjoy it, Captain?
KIRK	Yes, I enjoyed it. After all these years. I did enjoy it. The one thing I wanted to do after all these years was to beat the tar out of Finnegan.
SPOCK	Which supports a theory I've been formulating.
KIRK	That we're all meeting people and things that we happen to be thinking about at the moment.
SPOCK	Yes. Somehow our thoughts are read, these things are quickly manufactured and provided for us.
KIRK	Dangerous if we happen to be thinking about
SPOCK	Yes. We must all control our thoughts.
KIRK	Difficult.
SPOCK	The force field we encountered is obviously underground, manufacturing these things. Passages lead to the surface. Just for example, when Rodriguez thought of a tiger
KIRK	Spock.
KIRK	We've got to get back to the landing party and warn them.
KIRK	Sulu, Rodriguez, Barrows. Front and centre.
SULU	Sir.
KIRK	Don't ask any questions, Sulu. Face front, everyone. Don't talk. Don't breathe. Don't think. You're at attention. Concentrate on that and only that. Concentrate.
SPOCK	Captain.
KIRK	Who are you?
CARETAKER	I'm the caretaker of this place, Captain Kirk.
KIRK	You know my name?
CARETAKER	But of course. Lieutenant Rodriguez, Lieutenant Sulu, Yeoman Barrows and Mister Spock. We've just discovered you don't understand all this. These experiences were intended to amuse you.
KIRK	Amuse? That's your word for what we've been through?
CARETAKER	But none of this is permanent. Here you have to only imagine your fondest wishes, either old ones you wish to relive or new ones, anything at all. Battle, fear, love, triumph. Anything that pleases you can be made to happen.
SPOCK	The term is amusement park.
CARETAKER	Of course.
SPOCK	An old Earth name for a place where people could go to see and do all sorts of fascinating things.
CARETAKER	This entire planet was constructed for our race of people to come and play.
SULU	Play? As advanced as you obviously are, and you still play?
KIRK	Yes, play, Mister Sulu. The more complex the mind, the greater the need for the simplicity of play.
CARETAKER	Exactly, Captain. How very perceptive of you.
KIRK	But that still doesn't explain the death of my ship's surgeon.
MCCOY	Possibly because no one has died, Jim. I was taken below the surface for some rather remarkable repairs. It's amazing. They've got a factory complex down there you wouldn't believe. They can build or do anything immediately.
TONIA	And how do you explain them?
MCCOY	Oh. Them. Well I, er, I was thinking about a little cabaret I know on Rigel Two, and, er, there were these two girls in the chorus line. And well, here they are. Well after all, I am on shore leave.
TONIA	And so am l.
MCCOY	Oh, yes. So you are. Well, girls, I suppose you can turn something up.
CARETAKER	We regret that some of you've been made uncomfortable.
KIRK	You say your people built all this. Who are you? What planet are you from?
CARETAKER	My impression is that your race is not yet ready to understand us, Captain.
SPOCK	I tend to agree.
KIRK	Kirk here.
UHURA	This is the bridge, Captain. Our power systems have just come back in. Do you require assistance?
KIRK	No, everything is in order, Lieutenant. Stand by.
CARETAKER	However.
UHURA	Aye, aye, sir.
CARETAKER	If you would use the proper caution, this amusement planet of ours could be an ideal place for your people to enjoy themselves, if you wish.
MCCOY	It's what the doctor ordered, Jim.
KIRK	Lieutenant.
UHURA	Sir?
KIRK	Commence transporting shore leave parties. Tell them to prepare for the best shore leave they've ever had. Kirk out.
SPOCK	Captain, I'll go back aboard ship and take over. With all due respect to the young lady, I've already had as much shore leave as I care for.
KIRK	No, Mister Spock. I'll go. You. On the other hand, I'll stay for a day or two.
SPOCK	Did you enjoy your rest, gentlemen?
KIRK	Yes, we did, Mister Spock. I think we did.
MCCOY	Indeed we did, Mister Spock.
SPOCK	Most illogical.
KIRK	Ahead warp factor one, Mister Sulu.
