character	line
MCCOY	Look at those pine trees.
KIRK	And that lake.
MCCOY	I swear that's honeysuckle I smell.
KIRK	I swear that's a little orange blossom thrown in. It's unbelievable. Growth exactly like that of Earth on a planet half a galaxy away. What are the odds on such duplication?
SPOCK	Astronomical, Captain. The relative size, age and composition of this planet makes it highly improbable that it would evolve similarly to Earth in any way.
MCCOY	What in blazes is that?
KIRK	Analysis, Spock.
SPOCK	An alien metal of some kind. An alloy resistant to probe. Readings can't even measure its age accurately. These incised symbols are fascinating. Evidently, some form of writing.
KIRK	Any theories about what it is?
SPOCK	Negative, Captain. Structures of this complexity require extremely sophisticated building apparatus, the kind usually found in cultures surpassing or equalling our own.
MCCOY	Meadows and no meteor craters. The whole place is an enigma, biologically and culturally.
KIRK	What's the nearest concentration of life forms, Mister Spock?
SPOCK	Bearing one one seven mark four.
KIRK	And how much time did you say we have to investigate?
SPOCK	If we are to divert the asteroid which is on a collision course with this planet, we must warp out of orbit within thirty minutes. Every second we delay arriving at the deflection point compounds the problem, perhaps past solution.
KIRK	You did say thirty minutes?
SPOCK	Yes, sir.
KIRK	Then let's go. Let's find out what life forms are blessed by this environment.
MCCOY	Why, they look like. I'd swear they're American Indians.
SPOCK	They are, Doctor. A mixture of Navajo, Mohican, and Delaware, I believe. All among the more advanced and peaceful tribes.
KIRK	It's like discovering Atlantis or Shangri-la. Mister Spock, is it possible there's a more evolved civilisation somewhere else on this planet, one capable of building that obelisk or developing a deflector system?
SPOCK	Highly improbable, Captain. Sensor probes indicate only one type of life form here.
MCCOY	Shouldn't we contact them, Jim? Tell them?
KIRK	Tell them what? That an asteroid's coming to smash their world into atoms?
SPOCK	Too primitive to grasp the concept of space flight, Doctor. Our appearance here would only confuse and frighten them.
KIRK	We've got a job to do. Let's get back to the Enterprise.
MCCOY	What's the matter, Jim?
KIRK	What? Oh, nothing. It's just so peaceful, uncomplicated. No problems, no command decisions. Just living.
MCCOY	Typical human reaction to an idyllic natural setting. Back in the twentieth century, we referred to it as the Tahiti Syndrome. It's particularly common to over-pressured leader types, like starship captains.
KIRK	Ah, the Tahiti Syndrome. Let's go take care of that asteroid. But first I want another look at that obelisk.
SPOCK	Doctor?
MCCOY	Yes.
SPOCK	I suggest that any further research on your part be delayed until after we have diverted the asteroid.
KIRK	Kirk to Enterprise.
CHEKOV	Yes, sir.
SPOCK	Captain's Log, stardate 4842.6. First Officer Spock commanding. Numerous search parties and repeated sensor probes of the area have failed to locate Captain Kirk.
SPOCK	Spock to Enterprise.
SCOTT	Enterprise. Come in, Mister Spock.
SPOCK	Prepare to beam us up, Mister Scott. We're warping out of orbit.
MCCOY	Leaving? You can't be serious, Spock.
SPOCK	Doctor, that asteroid is almost as large as your Earth's moon. Far enough away, the angle necessary to divert it enough to avoid destruction is minute, but as the asteroid approaches this planet, the angle becomes so great that even the power of a starship
MCCOY	The devil with an asteroid! It won't get here for two months, Spock!
SPOCK	If we arrive at the deflection point in time, it may not get here at all.
MCCOY	In the meantime, what about Jim?
SPOCK	Once the asteroid has been diverted, we'll return here and resume the search.
MCCOY	That may be hours from now. He may be injured or dying.
SPOCK	Doctor, assume this is the planet we're on. This is the approaching asteroid. If we don't get to that deflection point in time, it will become physically impossible to divert this asteroid. In that case, everyone on this planet will die, including the captain.
MCCOY	Can a few more minutes matter, Spock?
SPOCK	In the time it's taken me to explain the problem, the asteroid has moved from here to here. The longer we delay, the less the likelihood of being able to divert it. Beam us up, Mister Scott.
KIRK	Where am I? What place is this? What are these? I feel should know. They're familiar and yet unfamiliar. How did I get here? Who am I? Try to remember.
MIRAMANEE	Wait.
KIRK	Who are you?
MIRAMANEE	We are your people. We've been waiting for you to come to us.
SPOCK	Captain's log, stardate 4843.6. First Officer Spock commanding. We've been en route to the asteroid for several hours. Our delay on the planet's surface has made it imperative that we proceed at maximum warp speed for a period which exceeds the recommended safety margin.
SCOTT	I can't give you warp nine much longer, Mister Spock. These engines are beginning to show signs of stress.
SPOCK	Stress or not, we cannot reduce speed. I do not intend to miss that
SPOCK	Deflection point.
SCOTT	All right, but we're moving further into the danger range all the time.
SCOTT	If these circuits
SPOCK	Objection noted, Mister Scott. Carry on.
ELDER	Miramanee has said that you appeared to her and to her handmaiden from the walls of the temple, just as our legend foretells. We do not doubt the words of our priestess, but these are troubled times, and we must be sure.
KIRK	I'll answer anything I can, but as I told you, many things are strange to me.
SALISH	He knows nothing of our danger. How could he save us?
ELDER	It is against custom to interrupt a tribal elder at council, even for the medicine chief.
SALISH	Elder, words will not save us when the skies darken. We must be certain. I say he must prove he is a god.
ELDER	Our skies have darkened three times since the harvest. The last time worst of all. Our legend predicts such danger and promises that the Wise Ones who planted us here will send a god to save us, one who can rouse the temple spirit and make the sky grow quiet. Can you do this?
KIRK	I came from the temple, as Miramanee said, and it was a beginning for me here. But I came from the sky, too. Only I can't remember. I can't remember.
MIRAMANEE	Salish, a terrible thing has happened. The boy was attending the fishnets, and he became entangled in them and sank to the bottom of the river. Lumo brought him up quickly, but he doesn't move.
SALISH	There is no sound in the body. There is no light in the eyes. He will move no more.
KIRK	Wait a moment.
ELDER	Wait.
KIRK	He'll be all right now.
ELDER	My people are grateful.
KIRK	It's a simple technique. It goes way back. Way back.
ELDER	Only a god can breathe life into the dead. Do you still question? Give him the medicine badge.
CHEKOV	Deflection point minus seven.
SPOCK	Full power, Mister Scott.
SCOTT	The relays will reject the overload, Mister Spock!
SPOCK	Then bypass the relays and go to manual control.
SCOTT	We'll burn out the engines!
SPOCK	I want full power, Mister Scott.
SCOTT	Aye, sir.
SCOTT	All right, you lovelies. Hold together. Full power, Mister Spock.
SPOCK	Magnification factor twelve, Mister Sulu.
SULU	Aye, sir.
CHEKOV	Deflection point minus four.
SPOCK	All engines stop. Hold position here.
SCOTT	All engines stop, sir.
SPOCK	Prepare to activate deflectors.
SULU	Aye, sir.
CHEKOV	Power dropping, sir.
SPOCK	Engineering, maintain full power. Full power.
SCOTT	Dilithium crystal circuit's failing, sir. We'll have to replace it.
SPOCK	Not now.
CHEKOV	Zero. Deflection point now, sir.
SPOCK	Activate deflectors.
CHEKOV	Power dropping, sir.
SPOCK	Degree of deflection, Mister Sulu.
SULU	Not enough, Mister Spock. It's only point zero zero one three degrees.
SPOCK	Recircuit power to engines. Maximum speed heading three seven mark zero one zero.
SULU	Aye, sir.
CHEKOV	That heading will put us directly in the asteroid's path, sir.
SPOCK	Correct, Mister Chekov. I intend to retreat in front of that asteroid until we can employ all power on phaser beams.
MCCOY	What for?
SPOCK	To destroy it. A narrow beam concentrated on a single spot will split that mass.
MCCOY	It might also cripple the ship, and we would be crushed by the asteroid.
SPOCK	Incorrect. We'll still be able to get out of its path by use of impulse power.
MCCOY	Jim won't be able to get out of its path.
SPOCK	That, Doctor, is another calculated risk we must take.
SALISH	Miramanee. What are you doing?
MIRAMANEE	I must see to the needs of the god, as is my duty.
SALISH	You should be working on our ritual cloak.
MIRAMANEE	There will be no ritual between us now, Salish.
SALISH	What do you mean? We cannot go against tradition.
MIRAMANEE	It is because of tradition that I cannot marry you.
SALISH	But you are promised to me.
MIRAMANEE	That was before he came.
SALISH	Tribal priestess and medicine chief are always joined.
MIRAMANEE	He is medicine chief now. Salish, choose another. Any maiden would be honoured to join with you.
SALISH	I wish no other.
MIRAMANEE	You have no choice.
SALISH	Miramanee, if you could choose, would you choose me?
MIRAMANEE	Perhaps you would like to bathe now.
KIRK	Miramanee, tell me about the Wise Ones.
MIRAMANEE	Tell? But a god knows everything.
KIRK	Not this one. Tell me.
MIRAMANEE	The Wise Ones brought us here from far away. They chose a medicine chief to keep the secret of the temple and to use it when the sky darkens.
KIRK	Secrets of the temple.
MIRAMANEE	There are no lacings. How is this thing removed?
KIRK	The secrets were passed on from father to son?
MIRAMANEE	Yes. How does this open?
KIRK	Well, why doesn't Salish use it? Why are the people in danger?
MIRAMANEE	His father did not wish to share his power too soon. He died before he told Salish the secret.
ELDER	Our people rejoice and wish to honour your name, but I did not know what you wish to be called. What may I tell them?
KIRK	Ki, Kir
ELDER	Kirok?
ELDER	Have we displeased you?
KIRK	No, no, everything is fine.
ELDER	Then it must be ourselves, the way we live. Perhaps we have not improved as quickly as the Wise Ones wish.
KIRK	Your land is rich, your people happy. Who could be displeased with that?
ELDER	But there is something. Tell us. We will change it.
KIRK	I can't tell you anything. All I can tell you is that I'm happy and peaceful here. I'm not sure, but I think I've never felt that way before.
KIRK	Why are they so sure I can help them?
MIRAMANEE	Well, you came from the stone metal. Did you not bring life to the child?
KIRK	Yes, but I. I need time to remember.
MIRAMANEE	Here there is much time. For everything.
SPOCK	Co-ordinates, Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV	Tau eight point seven. Beta point zero four one.
SPOCK	That is our target. The asteroid's weakest point.
CHEKOV	Almost dead centre, sir.
SPOCK	Lock all phasers on that mark. Maximum intensity, narrow beam. I want to split that fissure wide open.
MCCOY	You sound like you're cutting a diamond.
SPOCK	Very astute, Doctor.
SULU	All phasers locked, sir.
SPOCK	We'll fire in sequence and continue firing as long as Mister Scott can maintain power.
SULU	Standing by, sir.
SPOCK	Fire phasers.
SULU	Phaser one firing.
SCOTT	That Vulcan won't be satisfied till these panels are a puddle of lead.
SULU	Phaser two firing.
ENGINEER	Main relay's out again, Mister Scott.
SULU	Phaser four firing. All phasers fired, sir.
SPOCK	Rig for simultaneous firing, Mister Sulu. Commence simultaneous bombardment.
SCOTT	My bairns. My poor bairns.
MIRAMANEE	The ritual cloak is finished. If it pleases you, I would like to name the Joining day.
KIRK	The Joining day?
MIRAMANEE	I'm the daughter of the chief. Tribal law betroths me to our leader. If there is another, I will step aside.
KIRK	No, Miramanee, there's no one else in my mind or my heart.
MIRAMANEE	God's wish is above tribal law.
KIRK	Name the Joining day.
MIRAMANEE	The sooner our happiness together begins, the longer it will last. Tomorrow.
SCOTT	Don't ask for anymore warp nine speeds, Mister Spock. Our star drive is completely burned out. The only thing we have left is impulse power.
SPOCK	Estimated repair time?
SCOTT	Hanging here in space? Forever.
SCOTT	The only thing that'll fix these poor darlings is the nearest repair base.
SPOCK	I've already surmised that. Thank you, Mister Scott.
MCCOY	Well, Spock, you took your calculated risk in your calculated Vulcan way, and you lost. You lost for us, you lost for that planet, and you lost for Jim.
SPOCK	I accept the responsibility, Doctor.
MCCOY	And my responsibility is the health of this crew. You've been driving yourself too hard, and I want you to get some rest.
SPOCK	Mister Chekov, resume heading eight eight three mark four one.
MCCOY	Back to that planet? Without warp speed, it'll take months, Spock.
SPOCK	Exactly fifty nine point two two three days, Doctor, and that asteroid will be four hours behind us all the way.
MCCOY	Well then what's the use? We might not be able to save the captain even if he still is alive. We might not be able to save anything, including this ship! You haven't heard a word I've said. All you've been doing is staring at that blasted obelisk.
SPOCK	Another calculated Vulcan risk, Doctor.
WOMAN	This joining means the end of darkness.
MIRAMANEE	It's a time for joy for all my people.
ELDER	You will wait until I walk the holy path to the earth lodge first, to give me time to tell the priestess that you follow and that the Joining will take place.
KIRK	I have found paradise. Surely no man has ever attained such happiness.
KIRK	Get out of my way, Salish.
SALISH	Even though you be a god, Kirok, I cannot permit this Joining.
KIRK	Nobody's asking for your permission.
SALISH	Then you must strike me dead.
KIRK	I have no intention of striking you dead.
SALISH	You bleed. You bleed, Kirok. Behold a god who bleeds! Behold a god who bleeds!
SALISH	Kill me. Kill me, Kirok, for I will not rest until I prove to my people that you are no god.
MCCOY	I thought you were reporting to Sickbay.
SPOCK	There isn't time, Doctor. I must decipher those obelisk's symbols. They're a highly advanced form of cipher writing.
MCCOY	You've been trying to do that ever since we started back to that planet. Fifty eight days.
SPOCK	I'm aware of that, Doctor. I'm also aware when we arrive at the planet, we'll have barely four hours to effect rescue. I believe those symbols are the key.
MCCOY	Well, you won't read them by killing yourself. You've hardly eaten or slept for weeks. Now if you don't let up, you're going to collapse.
SPOCK	I am not hungry, Doctor. And under stress, we Vulcans can do without sleep for weeks.
MCCOY	Well, your Vulcan metabolism is so low it can hardly be measured, and as for the pressure, that green ice water you call blood
SPOCK	My physical condition is not important, Doctor. That obelisk is.
MCCOY	Well, my diagnosis is exhaustion brought on from overwork and guilt. You're blaming yourself for crippling this ship, just as we blamed you. Well, we were wrong. So were you. You made a command decision. Jim would have done the same. My prescription is rest, now. Do I have to call the security guards to enforce it?
KIRK	Miramanee. Come here. Miramanee.
MIRAMANEE	Each time your arms hold me is as joyous as the first.
KIRK	I'm happy. I'm so happy. If it weren't for the dreams, my mind would be completely at peace.
MIRAMANEE	I thought you no longer had the dreams, that you no longer saw the strange lodge which moves through the sky.
KIRK	They've come back. They were gone for a while, but they've come back, and I see faces, too. Very dim. I feel I should know know them. I feel my place is with them, not here. I don't deserve this happiness.
MIRAMANEE	I have a gift for you.
KIRK	A gift? What?
MIRAMANEE	It may make you happy. Wait.
KIRK	These last few weeks, my love for Miramanee grows stronger with each passing day. However, the dreams return every night. Fragments of memories. I can almost get hold of them, and then
MIRAMANEE	I bear your child.
KIRK	You!
KIRK	A canal. And with it we'll bring the water from the lake right to the lodge. And we can expand the system, and irrigate the fields and double the food supply.
MIRAMANEE	And with the power of the lamp. Lamp?
KIRK	Lamp.
MIRAMANEE	Which turns night into day, we can cook twice as much food, and as you taught us, pre
KIRK	Preserve.
MIRAMANEE	Preserve.
KIRK	Preserve.
MIRAMANEE	For times of famine. That is why you made the lamp, Kirok, so that I would never know when it was night, and I would be forever cooking.
KIRK	Oh, no. No, no, no, no, no. That's not why I made the lamp at all, to keep you forever cooking.
KIRK	It's only the wind and the thunder.
MIRAMANEE	I act like a stupid child. I have nothing to fear. You are here. It is time.
KIRK	Time?
MIRAMANEE	To go to the temple. The people will be waiting.
KIRK	Why?
MIRAMANEE	To save them.
KIRK	But it's only the wind. The wind can't harm them.
MIRAMANEE	The wind is only the beginning. Soon the sky will darken, the lake will go wild, and the earth will tremble. Only you can save us.
KIRK	But I can't do anything about the wind or the sky.
MIRAMANEE	If we don't go now, it will be too late. You must go inside the temple and make the blue flame come out.
KIRK	I don't know how to get inside the temple.
MIRAMANEE	But you are a god.
ELDER	Kirok! Kirok!
SALISH	Why are you not at the temple, Kirok? Soon the ground will begin to tremble. The people need your help.
KIRK	We'll go to the caves. It'll be safe there.
SALISH	The caves? Surely a legend can do more than that for his people.
ELDER	When the ground trembles the caves are not safe, Kirok. If you do not rouse the temple spirit, we will all die.
MIRAMANEE	There is nothing you cannot do, my husband.
SALISH	Well, what do you wait for, god? Your robes?
KIRK	Take care of Miramanee.
KIRK	I am Kirok! I have come! I am Kirok!
MCCOY	I prescribed sleep.
SPOCK	You prescribed rest, Doctor. The symbols on the obelisk are not words. They are musical notes.
MCCOY	Musical notes? You mean it's nothing but a song?
SPOCK	In a way, yes. Other cultures, among them certain Vulcan offshoots, use musical notes as words. The tones correspond roughly to an alphabet.
MCCOY	Were you able to make sense our of the symbols?
SPOCK	Yes. The obelisk is a marker, just as I thought. It was left by a super-race known as the Preservers. They passed through the galaxy rescuing primitive cultures which were in danger of extinction and seeding them, so to speak, where they could live and grow.
MCCOY	I've always wondered why there were so many humanoids scattered through the galaxy.
SPOCK	So have I. Apparently the Preservers account for a number of them.
MCCOY	That's probably how the planet has survived all these centuries. The Preservers put an asteroid deflector on the planet.
SPOCK	Which has now become defective and is failing to operate.
MCCOY	And we have to find that deflector and put it back into working order, otherwise
SPOCK	Precisely, Doctor.
SALISH	There's the false one!
ALL	Die! Die! Die!
MIRAMANEE	No! No! Don't hurt him!
KIRK	Miramanee!
MIRAMANEE	Don't hurt him! He can save us!
SALISH	He's false!
MIRAMANEE	I belong to him.
SALISH	Then go. Go die with your false god.
ALL	You'll be killed! Kill him! We're all doomed! Die, impostor! You lied to us! You're not a god! We'll kill you now!
MCCOY	I need Nurse Chapel.
SPOCK	Spock to Enterprise.
SCOTT	Come in, Mister Spock.
SPOCK	We've located the captain. Beam down Nurse Chapel with an emergency surgical kit.
KIRK	My wife. Is she all right?
MCCOY	Wife?
SPOCK	Hallucinations?
KIRK	Miramanee.
SPOCK	The nurse has given you something to ease the pain. Why were you being stoned?
MIRAMANEE	Kirok could not get back into the temple.
SPOCK	Naturally, since he did not come from there.
MIRAMANEE	I saw him come, come.
CHAPEL	Does he recognise us?
MCCOY	His brain is unimpaired. Everything else is functionally normally except his memory.
SPOCK	Can you help him?
MCCOY	It'd take time.
SPOCK	Time, Doctor McCoy, is the one thing we do not have in abundance. Spock here.
SULU	Tracking report, sir. Sixty five minutes to end of safety margin.
SPOCK	Report noted. Doctor, is he strong enough for the Vulcan mind fusion?
MCCOY	We have no choice.
SPOCK	I am Spock. You are James Kirk. Our minds are moving closer. Closer, closer, closer, James Kirk. Closer.
KIRK	No!
SPOCK	James Kirk.
KIRK	Miramanee! No! Miramanee!
SPOCK	Our minds are one.
BOTH	I am Kirok. I am Kirok.
SPOCK	I am Kir
KIRK	I am Kirok! I am
SPOCK	Spock!
MCCOY	What is it?
SPOCK	His mind. He is an extremely dynamic individual.
KIRK	It worked.
SPOCK	Captain, were you inside this structure?
KIRK	Yes. What's inside is loaded with scientific equipment.
SPOCK	This obelisk is one huge deflector mechanism. It is imperative that we get inside immediately. Captain, we do not have much time.
KIRK	McCoy.
KIRK	I don't know how to get inside.
SPOCK	If we are not able to gain entry and activate the deflector mechanism within the next fifty minutes, this entire planet will be destroyed.
KIRK	The key must be in these symbols. We've got to decipher them.
SPOCK	I already have to some extent, Captain. They are musical notes.
KIRK	You mean entry can be gained by playing certain notes on a musical instrument?
SPOCK	That would be one method. Another would be a series of tonal qualities spoken in their proper sequence.
KIRK	Give me your communicator. Tonal control, consonants and vowels. I must have hit it accidentally when I contacted the ship.
SPOCK	If you could remember your exact words, Captain.
KIRK	Kirk to Enterprise.
SCOTT	Aye, Captain.
KIRK	Scotty, if the deflector isn't activated within twenty minutes, get out of orbit. Get the Enterprise out of the danger zone. The landing party is expendable. The Enterprise isn't. Kirk out. Miramanee. Bones, stay with her. Do what you can.
SPOCK	It is similar to deflector panels I've seen, Captain, but far more complicated.
KIRK	Careful. I must have hit something accidentally. A beam caught me and that's when I stopped remembering.
SPOCK	Probably a memory beam. You must have activated it out of sequence.
KIRK	More symbols. Can you read them?
SPOCK	I do have an excellent eye for musical notes, Captain. They would seem to indicate that this series of relays activated in their proper
KIRK	Spock, just press the right button.
KIRK	How is she?
MCCOY	She had bad internal injuries, Jim.
KIRK	Will she live?
MCCOY	No.
MIRAMANEE	Kirok. It is true. You are safe.
KIRK	And so are your people, Miramanee.
MIRAMANEE	I knew you would save them, my chief. When I am better, it will be as it was, will it not?
KIRK	If that's what you want.
MIRAMANEE	We will live long and happy lives. I will bear you many strong sons. I'll love you always.
KIRK	And I'll love you, Miramanee. Always.
MIRAMANEE	Each kiss is as the first.
