character	line
MCCOY	Yes, Jim.
KIRK	How much longer, McCoy?
MCCOY	Oh, about another thirty minutes. I've come across some most interesting organic compounds. Hey, Starfleet was right.
MCCOY	These roots and soil cultures can be a medical treasure house. Any problems there?
KIRK	No sign of the inhabitants so far. Kirk out.
SPOCK	Large prints. The ape-like carnivore in the reports?
KIRK	Yes, the mugato. No problem, though. Those prints are several days old. They seldom stay in one place.
SPOCK	Aside from that, you say it's a Garden of Eden?
KIRK	Or so it seemed to the brash young Lieutenant Kirk on his first planet survey.
SPOCK	Class M in all respects. Quite Earth-like.
KIRK	Except these people stayed in their Garden of Eden. Bows and arrows for hunting, but absolutely no fighting among themselves. Remarkably peaceful and tranquil.
VOICE	Ho! Take cover here!
SPOCK	Bows and arrows, Captain?
KIRK	Villagers with flintlocks? That's impossible. They hadn't progressed nearly that far.
SPOCK	Captain, look.
KIRK	One of those men walking into ambush is Tyree. The friend I lived with here.
SPOCK	Captain, use of our phasers is expressly forbidden.
TYREE	Villagers!
MCCOY	Enterprise, alert! Stand by to beam up landing party.
KIRK	Spock? Your phaser.
SPOCK	No, Captain. I can travel.
KIRK	Beam us up, quickly.
MCCOY	Now, Scotty. Have medics stand by.
SCOTT	What happened, Captain?
KIRK	Lead projectile. Primitive firearm.
M'BENGA	Vitalizer B.
MCCOY	Pressure packet. Lucky his heart's where his liver should be, or he'd be dead now.
M'BENGA	Not good, sir.
MCCOY	Coranalin.
KIRK	Bones, can you save him?
UHURA	All decks, Red Alert! Battle stations, battle stations! Go to Red Alert!
KIRK	Kirk here.
UHURA	Uhura, sir. We have a Klingon vessel on our screen.
KIRK	On my way. Scotty. Bones?
MCCOY	I don't know yet, Jim.
CHEKOV	Captain, we're holding the planet between us and the Klingons. I don't think they've spotted us.
UHURA	Make that definite, sir. They're sending a routine message to their home base with no mention of us.
KIRK	Good. Go to Yellow Alert.
UHURA	Yellow Alert. All stations go to Yellow Alert.
KIRK	Do you think you can keep us out of their sight, Chekov?
CHEKOV	I can try, Captain.
UHURA	Message to Starbase, sir?
KIRK	No point in giving ourselves away, Lieutenant. Not until we find out what's going on.
SCOTT	We can hide for a while, sir, but we may have to go out of orbit to keep it up for long.
KIRK	Kirk to Sickbay.
MCCOY	McCoy here. I'll call you soon as I know anything. Sickbay out.
KIRK	So, they've broken the treaty.
SCOTT	Not necessarily, Captain. They have as much right to scientific missions here as we have.
KIRK	Research is not the Klingon way.
SCOTT	True, but since this is a hands-off planet, how are you going to prove they're doing otherwise?
KIRK	When I left there thirteen years ago, those villagers had barely learned to forge iron. Spock was shot with a flintlock. How many centuries between those two developments?
UHURA	On Earth, about twelve, sir.
SCOTT	On the other hand, a flintlock would be the first firearm the inhabitants would normally develop.
KIRK	Yes, I'm aware of that, Mister Scott.
CHEKOV	And, sir, the fact Earth took twelve centuries doesn't mean they had to.
UHURA	We've seen different development at rates on different planets.
SCOTT	And were the Klingons behind it, why didn't they give them breechloaders?
CHEKOV	Or machine guns?
UHURA	Or old-style hand lasers?
KIRK	I did not invite a debate. I'm sorry. I'm worried about Spock and concerned about what's happened to something I once knew down there. You have the conn, Scotty. I'll be in Sickbay.
M'BENGA	We've no replacements for the damaged organs, sir. If he's going to live, his Vulcan physiology will have to do it for him.
MCCOY	Agreed. Sterilite off.
CHAPEL	Yes, sir.
MCCOY	He'll live or die now, Jim. I don't know which. Doctor M'Benga interned on a Vulcan ward. He couldn't be in better hands.
KIRK	Then you and I are transporting down.
MCCOY	I can't leave Spock at this time.
KIRK	You just indicated you could. There are Klingons here. If their mission is a legitimate research interest in the planet's organic potential, then you're the one man who can tell me.
MCCOY	And if that's not it?
KIRK	Then I need help. Advice I can trust as much as Spock's.
MCCOY	I appreciate the compliment, Jim, but
KIRK	Bones, I'm as worried about Spock as you are, but if the Klingons are breaking the treaty it could be interstellar war. Kirk to Bridge.
SCOTT	Bridge, Scott here.
KIRK	McCoy and I are transporting back down. Inform ship's stores that we'll need native costumes.
SCOTT	Captain, we may have to break out of orbit any minute to keep out of their sight. We'd be out of communicator range with you.
KIRK	I understand. We'll arrange a rendezvous schedule. Kirk out.
KIRK	Captain's log, stardate 4211.4. Keeping our presence here secret is an enormous tactical advantage, therefore I cannot risk contact with Starfleet Command. I must take action on my own judgment. I've elected to violate orders and make contact with planet inhabitants.
KIRK	Perfect. Tyree's camp's a quarter of a mile away.
MCCOY	Want to think about it again, Jim? Starfleet's orders about this planet state no interference with
KIRK	No interference with normal social development. I'm not only aware of it, it was my survey thirteen years ago that recommended it.
MCCOY	I read it. Inhabitants superior in many ways to humans. Left alone, they undoubtedly someday will develop a remarkably advanced and peaceful culture.
KIRK	Indeed. And I intend to see that they have that chance. You coming with me?
MCCOY	Do I have a choice?
KIRK	Contact ship. Took full poison. Fangs.
MCCOY	Enterprise, McCoy. Emergency. Come in. Enterprise, come in. McCoy! Emergency!
KIRK	They left. Out of orbit.
MCCOY	Jim, there is no antitoxin for this poison. I can only keep you alive a few hours with this.
KIRK	Tyree. Some of his men. Cure.
MCCOY	Are you hill people? Do you know a hunter named Tyree? A mugato attacked him. He's James Kirk. He's a friend of Tyree's. Blast it! Do something! He's dying!
YUTAN	Take him to the cave. I bring Tyree.
MCCOY	Medical log, stardate 4211.8. Kirk is right about the people here. Despite their fear and our strangeness, they're compassionate and gentle. I've learned the hunter Tyree is now their leader. He is expected to return shortly with his wife, who they say knows how to cure this poison. My problem. The captain is in deep shock. I must keep him warm and alive until then.
MCCOY	You and your Garden of Eden.
NONA	We must obtain the same firesticks, husband. You could be killing them instead. We could take their houses, their goods.
TYREE	Nona, enough. In time the villagers will return to their ways of friendship.
NONA	In time? They kill your people! I am a Kahn-ut-tu woman. In all this land, how many are there? Men seek us because through us they become great leaders.
TYREE	I took you because you cast a spell upon me.
NONA	And I have spells that help me keep you. Remember this leaf? The night we camped by the water?
TYREE	The night of madness.
NONA	Oh, Tyree, did you really hate that madness?
TYREE	No, Nona. No! It brought up evil beasts from my soul.
NONA	Only one lovely beast, Tyree, my huge, angry man.
YUTAN	Forgive me.
NONA	What is it?
YUTAN	There are strangers in our camp. One has taken the mugato bite. He dies.
NONA	Strangers?
YUTAN	It is said the dying one is a friend of Tyree, from long ago.
NONA	That one. Bring him when his head clears.
NONA	The stranger, where is he?
TYREE	Nona, where's Kirk? The cave?
NONA	Tyree, you wish me to save him?
TYREE	You must. He is the one I told you of. The friend of my younger days.
NONA	My remedies require I know what kind of man he is. All that is known of him.
TYREE	I gave him my promise of silence. He was made my brother.
NONA	And I am your wife, his sister. I promise silence also.
TYREE	Nona
NONA	Quickly! Or he dies.
M'BENGA	Don't let these low panel readings bother you. I've seen this before in Vulcans. It's their way of concentrating all their strength, blood, and antibodies onto the injured organs. A form of self-induced hypnosis.
CHAPEL	You mean he's conscious?
M'BENGA	Well, in a sense. He knows we're here and what we're saying, but he can't afford to take his mind from the tissue he's fighting to heal. I suppose he even knows you were holding his hand.
CHAPEL	A good nurse always treats her patients that way. It proves she's interested.
TYREE	I am Tyree.
NONA	And I'm Tyree's woman.
TYREE	It is Kirk. She will cure him.
MCCOY	What's that?
NONA	A mahko root.
MCCOY	A plant? It moves.
NONA	For those who know where to find it, how to use it, how to pick it.
NONA	Take this of my soul. This of my soul. Thine own. Into thine. Deeply. Together. Your pain is mine. All mine. Your soul and mine, together! Return. It is past. Return. Return!
KIRK	Bones. I had the strangest dream.
MCCOY	How do you feel, Jim?
KIRK	Tired. Very tired. You did a fine job, Bones. I think I'll sleep.
MCCOY	I want to thank you for saving his life. I would like to learn more about this.
NONA	Our blood has passed through the mahko root together. Our souls have been together. He is mine now.
TYREE	She must sleep also.
MCCOY	He is hers?
TYREE	When a man and woman are joined in this manner, he can refuse her no wish. But it is only legend.
MCCOY	Jim.
KIRK	Bones. What are you doing here? Tyree. My old friend.
TYREE	Yes, James! James, it's good to see you.
KIRK	What am I doing here? A mugato bite! I remember. I told him to take me to Tyree's camp. I knew you'd find a kahn-ut-tu to cure me. The kahn-ut-tu is the local witch people here. They've studied They've studied the roots and the herbs.
NONA	I am a kahn-ut-tu, Captain. I cured you.
TYREE	My wife, Nona.
KIRK	Yes, of course. I should've guessed. Congratulations. Tyree, we must talk now. The villagers, their new weapons. I want to hear all about that. We must make plans.
NONA	Good. It is past time to plan.
TYREE	Much has happened since you left, James. Come, we'll speak of it.
NONA	And of things to be done.
TYREE	Come. We will speak of it.
CHAPEL	The readings are beginning to fluctuate.
M'BENGA	Just as they should. This is Doctor M'Benga. There will be someone with you constantly now. When the time comes, I'll be called. As soon as he shows any signs of consciousness, call me immediately.
CHAPEL	Yes, Doctor.
M'BENGA	After you've called me, if he speaks, do whatever he says.
CHAPEL	Do whatever he says?
M'BENGA	Yes. That's clear enough, isn't it?
TYREE	The firesticks first appeared nearly a year ago. Since that time, many of my people have died.
KIRK	You say they make the firesticks themselves? How can you be sure?
TYREE	I've looked into their village. I have seen it being done.
MCCOY	Have you seen any strangers among the villagers?
TYREE	Strangers? No.
KIRK	Can you take us to their village while it's still dark?
TYREE	Yes, but the mugatos travel at night also. You killed one. Its mate will not be far.
KIRK	You've seen how these work.
NONA	I've seen them also, and I know you have many ways to make your friend Tyree a man of great importance.
MCCOY	Many ways? What else does she know about us?
NONA	Tyree has told me much of you. Do not blame him. It was the price for saving your life.
KIRK	We're simply strangers from
NONA	From one of the lights in the sky, and you have ways as far above firesticks as the sky above our world.
TYREE	You will not speak of this to others.
NONA	I will not if I am made to understand. Teach me. There's an old custom among my people. When a woman saves a man's life, he is grateful.
KIRK	I am grateful.
MCCOY	A splendid custom if not carried to extremes.
KIRK	We once were as you are, Spears, arrows. There came a time when our weapons grew faster than our wisdom, and we almost destroyed ourselves. We learned from this to make a rule during all our travels, Never to cause the same to happen to other worlds. Just as a man must grow in his own way and in his own time.
NONA	Some men never grow.
KIRK	Perhaps not as fast or in the way another thinks he should. But we're wise enough to know that we are wise enough not to interfere with the way of a man or another world.
NONA	You must let the villagers destroy us? You will not help your friend and brother kill them instead?
TYREE	No! I said I will not kill!
NONA	We must fight or die! Is dying better? You would let him die when you have weapons to make him powerful and safe? Then he has the wrong friends. And I have the wrong husband.
TYREE	You will help in ways she does not understand. I have faith in our friendship, James. Come, before we lose the darkness.
MCCOY	What's bothering you, Jim? If we find the Klingons have helped the villagers, there's certainly something we can do.
KIRK	That's what's bothering me. The something we may have to do.
TYREE	The guard. We must wait.
KIRK	Tyree, supposing you had to fight? What then?
MCCOY	Jim, this man believes in the same thing we believe in. That killing is stupid and useless.
KIRK	Tyree?
TYREE	Now. Come.
KIRK	The gun. Ammunition. Doctor.
KRELL	You are late, my friend Apella.
APELLA	A quarrel by my people. A division of some skins and a hill woman taken this morning. It's hard to divide one woman.
KRELL	Give her to the man who killed the most of her people. The others will see the profit in bravery. I'll make a Klingon of you yet. Your next improvement. Notice what we've done to the striker. See how it holds the priming powder more securely? Fewer misfires. When I return, we will give you other improvements. A rifled barrel.
APELLA	What?
KRELL	A way to shoot further and straighter.
MCCOY	Jim. Coal for forge, sulphur for gun powder.
KIRK	Let's take a look inside.
KIRK	Well, here's your forge. People's exhibit number one. A chrome steel drill point.
MCCOY	This pig iron is almost carbon-free. That village furnace certainly didn't produce it. People's exhibit number two. Cold-rolled gun barrel rod fashioned to look homemade. You were right about the Klingons, Jim. KIRK: Make recorder and scanner tapes of everything.
MCCOY	Right. It's a pity we can't include a live Klingon. That'd just about wrap it
APELLA	Is it difficult to cut grooves into the barrels?
KRELL	It's quite simple. I'll show you.
APELLA	I thought my people would grow tired of killing. But you were right. They see that it is easier than trading and it has pleasures. I feel it myself. Like the hunt, but with richer rewards.
KRELL	You will be rich one day, Apella, beyond your dreams. The leader of a whole world. A governor in the Klingon Empire.
KIRK	Bones!
KRELL	Guards! Intruders!
KIRK	Move! Fast!
SPOCK	Nurse.
CHAPEL	Yes?
SPOCK	Hit me. The pain will help me to consciousness. Hit me.
CHAPEL	Hit you? No! I can't
SPOCK	Blast you, strike me! If I don't regain consciousness soon, it may be too late. Hit me. Harder!
SPOCK	Again. Continue. The pain will help me to consciousness.
SCOTT	What are you doing, woman?
CHAPEL	Leave me alone!
SCOTT	Have you gone daft?
CHAPEL	Mister Spock needs me! Let go!
SPOCK	That will be quite enough. Thank you, doctor.
M'BENGA	Please, release her.
SCOTT	What's this all about?
SPOCK	She was doing as I requested, Mister Scott. A Vulcan form of self-healing.
M'BENGA	As you saw, they must wait until the last possible moment then fight their way back to consciousness.
CHAPEL	Here, let me help you, Mister Spock.
SPOCK	Thank you, nurse. I'm quite fully recovered.
CHAPEL	Yes, I see you are.
KIRK	Men, this is the pan. This is the hammer. The hammer striking the pan causes a spark, ignites the powder, and fires the flintlock. Now aim it as I showed you. Hold your breath and squeeze the trigger gently. Well done. Very, very, very good.
MCCOY	Jim, I want to talk to you.
KIRK	Not here, Bones. In the cave. Yutan, your turn.
MCCOY	Do I have to say it? It's not bad enough there's one serpent in Eden teaching one side about gun powder. You want to make sure they all know about it!
KIRK	Exactly. Each side receives the same knowledge and the same type of firearm.
MCCOY	Have you gone out of your mind? Yes, maybe you have. Tyree's wife, she said there was something in that root. She said now you can refuse her nothing.
KIRK	Superstition.
MCCOY	Is it a coincidence this is exactly what she wants?
KIRK	Is it? She wants superior weapons. That's the one thing neither side can have. Bones. Bones, the normal development of this planet was the status quo between the hill people and the villagers. The Klingons changed that with the flintlocks. If this planet is to develop the way it should, we must equalize both sides again.
MCCOY	Jim, that means you're condemning this whole planet to a war that may never end. It could go on for year after year, massacre after massacre.
KIRK	All right, Doctor! All right. Say I'm wrong. Say I'm drugged. Say the woman drugged me. What is your sober, sensible solution to all this?
MCCOY	I don't have a solution. But furnishing them firearms is certainly not the answer.
KIRK	Bones, do you remember the twentieth century brush wars on the Asian continent? Two giant powers involved, much like the Klingons and ourselves. Neither side felt could pull out.
MCCOY	Yes, I remember. It went on bloody year after bloody year.
KIRK	What would you have suggested, that one side arm its friends with an overpowering weapon? Mankind would never have lived to travel space if they had. No. The only solution is what happened back then. Balance of power.
MCCOY	And if the Klingons give their side even more?
KIRK	Then we arm our side with exactly that much more. A balance of power. The trickiest, most difficult, dirtiest game of them all, but the only one that preserves both sides.
MCCOY	And what about your friend Tyree? Will he understand this balance of power?
KIRK	No. Probably not. But I'm going to have to try and make him understand. I never had a more difficult task.
MCCOY	Well, Jim, here's another morsel of agony for you. Since Tyree won't fight, he will be one of the first to die.
KIRK	Well, war isn't a good life, but it's life. His wife is the only way to reach him. If I tell her we're going to supply guns, maybe she'll convince him.
SPOCK	Position, Mister Scott?
SCOTT	Entering distant orbit, sir. Approaching rendezvous time.
SPOCK	The Klingons?
CHEKOV	They haven't spotted us yet, sir. Looks like they're beaming someone aboard.
SPOCK	Stand by to signal the captain.
UHURA	Aye, sir.
KIRK	Nona. Pardon me.
NONA	You are here because I wished you here.
KIRK	Oh? I thought it was my idea.
NONA	Yes. They always believe they come of free will. Tyree thought the same when I cast my first spell on him.
KIRK	Nona
NONA	Can you smell this fragrance? Some find it pleasing.
KIRK	I'd like to talk to you.
NONA	Again. Some find it soothing. Yes.
KIRK	I would like
NONA	Happy. Yes. You feel good.
KIRK	I feel dizzy. Yes, you are lovely. You're beautiful.
NONA	Kiss me.
MCCOY	Where's Captain Kirk? Tyree, the firestick. Where is it?
TYREE	There! I left it there.
MCCOY	That's a fine thing to leave lying around. Show us where it is.
TYREE	I do not want it.
MCCOY	Jim? Jim. Who hit you?
KIRK	Nona.
NONA	I bring you victory for Apella!
MAN 1	Tyree's woman.
MAN	She's a Kahn-ut-tu.
MAN	We won't trust this division to Apella.
NONA	Take me to him. He will have the strength to use this new weapon.
NONA	Touch me again, and this small box will kill you.
KIRK	No, no. I'm all right. My phaser. She took it.
NONA	This weapon I bring you is far greater than your firesticks.
TYREE	Nona!
MAN	Hill people!
MAN	It's a trap. The woman's tricked us.
MCCOY	She's dead.
TYREE	I want more of these, Kirk. Many more! Yutan, two of those who killed my wife have escaped. Track them down. I will kill them.
MCCOY	Here.
KIRK	Tomorrow in the palm of her hands.
MCCOY	Well, you got what you wanted.
KIRK	Not what I wanted, Bones. What had to be. Kirk here.
SPOCK	 Spock, Captain. I trust all has gone well.
MCCOY	Spock, are you alive?
SPOCK	An illogical question, Doctor, since obviously you are hearing my voice.
MCCOY	Well, I don't know why I was worried. You can't kill a computer.
KIRK	Spock, ask Scotty how long it would take him to reproduce a hundred flintlocks.
SCOTT	I didn't get that exactly, Captain. A hundred what?
KIRK	A hundred serpents. Serpents for the Garden of Eden. We're very tired, Mister Spock. Beam us up home.
